1
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Strategic Advisory Solutions

MARKET PULSE

Strategic Advisory Solutions

Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research (GIR) and Goldman Sachs Asset Management as of November 2022. The economic and market 
forecasts presented herein are for informational purposes as of the date of this presentation. There can be no assurance that the forecasts will be 
achieved. Goldman Sachs does not provide accounting, tax or legal advice. Please see additional disclosures at the end of this presentation. Past 
performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. 

ASSET CLASS VIEWS¹

1. ECONOMIC GROWTH: On the heels of an aggressive tightening in 
financial conditions and restrictive monetary policy in 2022, GIR expects 
global growth to move below trend to 1.8% in 2023. Investors may be 
underestimating the resilience of the US economy, which contrasts with a 
mild recession in Europe and a bumpy reopening in China. 

2. INFLATION: Prices will likely slowly cool, with notable improvement in 
the policy-critical areas of shelter and wages. Supply chains have 
functioned better, with further improvements likely if China implements a 
more flexible COVID-19 strategy. Still, wage growth and long-term 
inflation expectations are likely key factors in forward monetary policy. 

3. MONETARY POLICY: Sticky inflation remains the preeminent global 
concern, locking central banks (CB) into a pause-over-pivot bias in 2023. 
Consequently, CBs are eager to nudge growth below potential. In the US, 
GIR expects a terminal rate of 5-5.25% and no cuts in 2023. In the Euro 
area and UK, terminal rates may reach 3.00% and 4.50%, respectively. 

4. GEOPOLITICS: Acute geopolitical dynamics remain present as ever, 
hallmarked by conflict in Ukraine, territorial flexing by China, and 
entrenched societal polarization. On the latter, we expect increasing 
uncertainty in government composition and policy.

5. DM EQUITY: Rising cost of capital should accelerate the transition 
from highly bifurcated macro to deeply idiosyncratic drivers of return. To 
compete with compelling cross-asset opportunities, we believe a focus on 
profits over revenue, quality over capitalization, and company over 
country, is warranted. As current macro risks remain unresolved, a US 
equity tilt appears warranted, but the attractive cyclicality and potential FX 
tailwinds of non-US equities may emerge in 2023. 

6. EM EQUITY: EM equities face a challenging composition of subpar 
growth and a sharp tightening in financial conditions. However, we 
believe pockets of value may exist in EMs that are closer to relief from 
inflation and rates, including Brazil, Chile, and Korea.

7. RATES: Global yields will likely move in tandem with CB policy paths, 
with potential differentiation due to regional energy exposure. GIR 
forecasts rates to top out in 1H 2023, though acknowledge the risk to the 
upside given policymakers’ willingness to overshoot. Globally, we believe 
the deepest level of curve inversion is behind us. 

8. CREDIT: Credit fundamentals have peaked but remain on solid 
footing. US corporates have room for additional spread widening, but 
disciplined capital management, a low wall of debt maturity, and cash-rich 
balance sheets may act as buffers. In Europe, uncertainty around policy 
and energy pose headwinds despite attractive valuations.

9. CURRENCY: Near-term US dollar strength may persist as global 
growth risk is to the downside. Over the longer term, the US dollar looks 
vulnerable to high valuation and global recovery. Should the global 
growth-inflation mix improve, the USD is likely to rebate recent gains.

10. COMMODITIES: Supply challenges are structural, based on years of 
underinvestment. While weakness may persist from factors such as 
higher real rates, USD strength, and recessionary concerns, longer-term 
physical tightness will not be easily resolved. 

10 FOR 2023

SPECIAL EDITION – 10 FOR 2023

Less Favorable
More Favorable

EQUITY
Shorter Term
Longer Term

US Equity
European Equity
Japanese Equity
Emerging Market (EM) Equity
RATES
US Government Fixed Income
DM Government Fixed Income
EM Debt Local
Municipal Bonds
CREDIT
US Investment Grade
US High Yield
Euro Area Corporates
Asia High Yield
EM Debt Hard
REAL ASSETS
Oil
Copper
Gold
Global Real Estate
CURRENCIES
US Dollar
Euro
British Pound
Japanese Yen
Chinese Renminbi

ASSET CLASS FORECASTS²

Current
3m
12m
% ∆ to 12m

S&P 500 ($)
4026
3600
4000
-0.6

STOXX Europe (€)
441
390
450
2.1

MSCI Asia-Pacific Ex-Japan ($)
494
510
550
11.3

TOPIX (¥)
2018
2000
2200
9.0

10-Year Treasury
3.7
4.2
4.3
64 bp

10-Year Bund
2.0
2.6
2.8
78 bp

10-Year JGB
0.3
0.3
0.3
0 bp

Euro (€/$)
1.04
0.94
1.05
0.9

Pound (£/$)
1.21
1.07
1.22
0.9

Yen ($/¥)
139
155
140
0.6

Brent Crude Oil ($/bbl)
83.6
115
110
31.5

London Gold ($/troy oz)
1750
1850
1950
11.4
Strategic Advisory Solutions
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
2

MARKET PULSE: SPECIAL EDITION – 10 FOR 2023

Section Notes: 1Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 2International Labor Organization (ILO), 3Transportation Security Administration (TSA), 4Mortgage 
Bankers Association, 5Bureau of Economic Analysis, 6University of Michigan Survey of Consumers, 7,9Goldman Sachs Asset Management, 8Goldman 
Sachs Global Investment Research, and 9Bloomberg. As of November 21, 2022, latest data available. Goldman Sachs does not provide accounting, tax or 
legal advice. The economic and market forecasts presented herein are for informational purposes as of the date of this document. There can be no 
assurance that the forecasts will be achieved. Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. 

Point Break

We expect 2023 to be a year filled with macro inflection points as inflation and monetary policy pressures start to diminish.
Alongside this transition, we believe investor prioritization of profitability over revenue and sticky income over the uncertainty of 
capital appreciation will be paramount. Market opportunities have already reset and investing next year may feature more of 1) 
stocks with durable cash flows, 2) quality bonds with significant coupons, and 3) alternatives with volatility-reducing attributes. 

SUPPLY TIMELINES: The share of manufacturing companies reporting faster supplier 
delivery times has increased 171% since the beginning of 20221. 

WORKING HOURS: Global labor supply remains squeezed. The ILO estimates total work 
hours to stay 1.5% below pre-pandemic levels, equating to a deficit of 40mm full-time jobs2.  

TRAVEL SURGE: The daily number of passengers screened at TSA checkpoints has 
jumped by 17x relative to the pandemic low in 20203. 

HOME EQUITY: Only 2% of US mortgages have negative equity today versus 25% in 
20114. Home prices would need to fall by 30% from 2021 levels to meaningfully erode loan-
to-value ratios and increase strategic defaults. 

CREDIT TRENDS: While US loan delinquencies remain subdued, spending has rotated 
from discretionary to essential; top areas of credit acceleration—automotive parts, gas, and 
materials—have discouraged borrowing for recreation, clothing, and food services5.

BAD MOOD: The UMichigan Consumer Sentiment Index printed below 60 in seven 
consecutive months, the longest stretch since inception as sticky costs diminish morale6. 

SINGLE STOCK: As of 3Q, 80% of S&P 500 companies have seen their equity prices fall at 
least 10% at some point this year, providing a large base for tax-loss harvesting7. 

UP DOWN: Performance swings have been more volatile this year relative to the long-term 
average. Positive days in 2022 have returned a daily average of 1.31% while negative days 
have posted an average drag of -1.14%, much wider than the historical bounds of +0.75%7. 

TECH BREAK: The market value loss for mega tech stocks this year is equivalent to the 
annual GDP of UK or France8. 

YIELD LAGGARD: A year ago, ~25% of global government debt offered negative nominal 
yields. Today, Japan is the last remaining sovereign borrower with negative-yielding debt, 
comprising <5% of all government debt8.

COST BENEFIT: Rate volatility has exceeded the 90th percentile relative to the past ten 
years. Still, US Treasuries are yielding 5.5x more per unit of volatility than US stocks8. 

DURATION LIMITS: The risk and cost of a rate shock are lower and less punitive today 
relative to earlier this year. While a 100 bp rate shock may drag the Bloomberg US 
Aggregate Bond Index by -6.2%, a coupon offset of 2.7% may ultimately limit left-tail risks9. 

ACTIVITY

CONSUMERS

EQUITIES

FIXED
INCOME
Strategic Advisory Solutions
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
3

MARKET PULSE: SPECIAL EDITION – 10 FOR 2023

Important Information

1. Asset Class Views for equities, credits, sovereigns, real assets, and 
currencies are informed by Goldman Sachs Asset Management, 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research, and Goldman Sachs 
Investment Strategy Group views. The views expressed herein are as 
of November 2022 and subject to change in the future. Individual 
portfolio management teams for Goldman Sachs Asset Management 
may have views and opinions and/or make investment decisions that, 
in certain instances, may not always be consistent with the views and 
opinions expressed herein.

2. Price targets of major asset classes are provided by Goldman Sachs 
Global Investment Research. Source: “Global equities gained 1.5%; 
Defensives outperformed” – 11/28/2022.

Page 1 Definitions:

Bp refers to basis point.

Brent crude oil is a common international benchmark for oil prices.

Central bank pivot refers to the shift in monetary policy stance from 
tightening to easing or vice versa. 

Core PCE refers to the core personal consumption expenditure price index, 
excluding food and energy. 

Curve inversion refers to the difference in yield between the 10-year 
maturity and 2-year maturity of government bonds. 

DM refers to developed markets.

Duration is a measure of the sensitivity of the price of a bond or other 
debt instrument to a change in interest rates.

ECB refers to the European Central Bank. 

EM refers to emerging markets. 

EPS refers to earnings per share. 

Fed refers to the Federal Reserve. 

FX refers to currencies. 

GDP refers to gross domestic product.

Inflation expectations refer to the rate at which consumers, businesses, 
and investors expect prices to rise in the future. 

Loan-to-value ratio is a measure of the mortgage balance to the 
appraised value of the property. The ratio is used to assess the lending 
risk that financial institutions assume before approving a mortgage. 

Terminal rate refers to the peak central bank policy rate at the end of a 
hiking cycle. 

YE refers to year-end.

Page 2 Notes:

WORKING HOURS: Data as of October 31, 2022, latest available. 

TRAVEL SURGE: Data is based on a 20-day moving average comparing 
TSA checkpoint volume on November 20, 2022 relative to May 1, 2020. 

SINGLE STOCK: S&P 500 Index constituent data as of September 30, 
2022. 

UP DOWN: Performance swings are based on the daily total returns for 
the S&P 500 Index. The long-term average refers to daily total returns 
since index inception in 1932. 

Glossary

The Bloomberg US Aggregate Bond Index represents an unmanaged 
diversified portfolio of fixed income securities, including US Treasuries, 
investment grade corporate bonds, and mortgage backed and asset-
backed securities.

The MSCI AC Asia Pacific ex Japan Index captures large and mid cap 
representation across 4 of 5 Developed Markets countries and 8 
Emerging Markets countries in the Asia Pacific region.

The S&P 500 Index is the Standard & Poor’s 500 Composite Stock Prices 
Index of 500 stocks, an unmanaged index of common stock prices. The 
index figures do not reflect any deduction for fees, expenses or taxes. It 
is not possible to invest directly in an unmanaged index.

The STOXX Europe 600 Index is derived from the STOXX Europe Total 
Market Index (TMI) and is a subset of the STOXX Global 1800 Index.

The Tokyo Price Index (TOPIX) is a metric for stock prices on the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE). A capitalization-weighted index, TOPIX 
lists all firms that have been determined to be part of the "first section" of 
the TSE.

The 10-Year US Treasury Bond is a US Treasury debt obligation that has 
a maturity of 10 years.

The University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index is a monthly 
survey of personal consumer confidence in economic activity. The index 
assesses how consumers view their own financial situation, the general 
economy over the near term, and their view of the economy over the long 
term. 

Indices are unmanaged. The figures for the index reflect the reinvestment 
of all income or dividends, but do not reflect the deduction of any fees or 
expenses which would reduce returns. Investors cannot invest directly 
in indices.
Strategic Advisory Solutions
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
4

MARKET PULSE: SPECIAL EDITION – 10 FOR 2023

Risk Considerations

Equity securities are more volatile than bonds and subject to greater 
risks. Foreign and emerging markets investments may be more volatile 
and less liquid than investments in U.S. securities and are subject to 
the risks of currency fluctuations and adverse economic or political 
developments. Investments in commodities may be affected by changes 
in overall market movements, commodity index volatility, changes in 
interest rates or factors affecting a particular industry or commodity. 
The currency market affords investors a substantial degree of leverage. 
This leverage presents the potential for substantial profits but also 
entails a high degree of risk including the risk that losses may be 
similarly substantial. Currency fluctuations will also affect the value 
of an investment.

Investments in fixed income securities are subject to the risks associated 
with debt securities generally, including credit, liquidity, interest rate, call 
and extension risk.

A 10-Year Treasury is a debt obligation backed by the United States 
government and its interest payments are exempt from state and local 
taxes. However, interest payments are not exempt from federal taxes. 

The above are not an exhaustive list of potential risks. There may be 
additional risks that should be considered before any investment 
decision. 

General Disclosures

This information discusses general market activity, industry or sector 
trends, or other broad-based economic, market or political conditions and 
should not be construed as research or investment advice. This material 
has been prepared by Goldman Sachs Asset Management and is not 
financial research nor a product of Goldman Sachs Global Investment 
Research (GIR).

It was not prepared in compliance with applicable provisions of law 
designed to promote the independence of financial analysis and is not 
subject to a prohibition on trading following the distribution of financial 
research. The views and opinions expressed may differ from those of 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research or other departments or 
divisions of Goldman Sachs and its affiliates. Investors are urged to 
consult with their financial professionals before buying or selling any 
securities. This information may not be current and Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management has no obligation to provide any updates or changes. 

Views and opinions expressed are for informational purposes only and do 
not constitute a recommendation by Goldman Sachs Asset Management 
to buy, sell, or hold any security, including any Goldman Sachs product or 
service. Views and opinions are current as of the date of this presentation 
and may be subject to change, they should not be construed as 
investment advice. In the event any of the assumptions used in this 
presentation do not prove to be true, results are likely to vary substantially 
from the examples shown herein. This presentation makes no implied or 
express recommendations concerning the manner in which any client’s 
account should or would be handled, as appropriate investment 
strategies depend upon the client’s investment objectives. It does not 
take into account the particular investment objectives, restrictions, tax 
and financial situation or other needs of any specific client.

Goldman Sachs Asset Management leverages the resources of Goldman 
Sachs & Co. LLC subject to legal, internal and regulatory restrictions.

Although certain information has been obtained from sources believed 
to be reliable, we do not guarantee its accuracy, completeness or 
fairness. We have relied upon and assumed without independent 
verification, the accuracy and completeness of all information available 
from public sources.

Economic and market forecasts presented herein reflect a series of 
assumptions and judgments as of the date of this presentation and are 
subject to change without notice.  These forecasts do not take into 
account the specific investment objectives, restrictions, tax and financial 
situation or other needs of any specific client.  Actual data will vary and 
may not be reflected here.  These forecasts are subject to high levels of 
uncertainty that may affect actual performance. Accordingly, these 
forecasts should be viewed as merely representative of a broad range of 
possible outcomes.  These forecasts are estimated, based on 
assumptions, and are subject to significant revision and may change 
materially as economic and market conditions change. Goldman Sachs 
has no obligation to provide updates or changes to these forecasts. Case 
studies and examples are for illustrative purposes only.

Goldman Sachs does not provide legal, tax or accounting advice to its 
clients. All investors are strongly urged to consult with their legal, tax, or 
accounting advisors regarding any potential transactions or investments. 
There is no assurance that the tax status or treatment of a proposed 
transaction or investment will continue in the future. Tax treatment or 
status may be changed by law or government action in the future or on a 
retroactive basis.

Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may 
vary. The value of investments and the income derived from 
investments will fluctuate and can go down as well as up. A loss of 
principal may occur. 

© 2022 Goldman Sachs. All rights reserved. 
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, member FINRA. 
Compliance code: 299697-OTU-1709288
Date of First Use: December 1, 2022

For more information contact your Goldman Sachs sales 
representative:

ICG: 800-312-GSAM Bank: 888-444-1151 Retirement: 800-559-9778 

IAC: 866-473-8637 Global Liquidity Management: 800-621-2550 

VA: 212-902-8157

MPDEC2022
