I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  1  - 

The sustainable 
investor for a 
changing world

THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK FOR 2023

INVESTING  
IN AN AGE OF 
TRANSFORMATION

Please note that this document may contain technical language. 
For this reason, it is not recommended to readers  
without professional investment experience.
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Letter to investors
4

Executive summary
5

MACROECONOMICS & MARKETS
6

10

15

The recession march 
Markets - Taking stock  

A new bond world

SUSTAINABILITY

ESG was always a means to an end
16

INVESTMENT THEMES
19

22

25

28

Thematic investing - History can help assess the future 
Technology sector outlook - Secular growth drivers dominate 
Deglobalisation in the context of ‘China decoupling’           
Resilience in private markets - Infrastructure debt

ASSET CLASS OVERVIEW
31

I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2  -
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  3  - 

MAYA BHANDARI

Global head of multi-asset

DANIEL MORRIS

Chief market strategist

JANE AMBACHTSHEER 

Global head of sustainability

ALEXANDER BERNHARDT

Global head of sustainability research

ULRIK FUGMANN

Co-head environmental  
strategies group

EDWARD LEES

Co-head environmental  
strategies group

PAM HEGARTY

Portfolio manager

VINCENT NICHOLS

Investment specialist

CHI LO

Senior market strategist APAC

KAREN AZOULAY

Head of infrastructure debt

THE AUTHORS
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  4  - 

We have become accustomed to uncertain times. Nonetheless, 2022 was an extremely 
challenging year in financial markets. The investment rationale for the classic 60% 
stocks / 40% bonds portfolio is that it will deliver solid if not spectacular returns. As 
of October, the 60/40 portfolio was on track to match its worst year for performance 
since the Second World War. 

Sharply rising bond yields were a key reason. They weighed on ultra-long duration 
assets like equities, with the Nasdaq down almost 30% year-to-date. Beyond 60/40, 
we saw major rotations in style with value stocks bucking the trend of recent years 
and outperforming growth. In currency markets, the US dollar surged and the 
Japanese yen had a year to forget.

Navigating geopolitical tensions has increasingly become an occupational hazard for 
investors. The conflict in Ukraine has had a profound impact on global commodity 
prices, amplifying inflation, and forcing Europe to re-think its energy policies. This 
will have major implications for industry structure and living standards for years 
to come. Meanwhile, markets are watching Sino-US relations closely, fearful that 
tensions over Taiwan could escalate. 

No doubt 2023 will bring fresh sources of volatility. But that volatility should be seen 
as an opportunity for an active manager. It is our job to make sense of the evolving 
macroeconomic landscape, position accordingly, and translate the market moves 
into strong performance for our clients. We remain convinced that a relentless 
focus on sustainability is an essential ingredient within that investment process and 
we do not accept that there is a conflict between delivering strong performance 
for clients and embedding sustainability in everything we do. On the contrary, we 
view sustainable investing as an opportunity, rather than a constraint. We have just 
published Committed to climate: Our net zero roadmap which spells out how we will 
align our portfolios with the goal of reaching net zero emissions. I hope that you will 
remain partners with us on the journey to net zero investing.

ROBERT GAMBI
Global head of investments

Letter to investors
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  5  - 

Executive summary

In our 2023 Investment Outlook, we seek to guide investors at a pivotal moment for 
the global economy. We live in an age of transformation, with surging inflation and 
fundamental geopolitical shifts leading to rising demands on governments. 

A sustainable recovery
In the terms of the progressing green transformation, we believe that, as investors, 
we must continue to focus our resources on sustainable long-term growth. We see 
opportunities in the shift leading to, for example, green hydrogen, restoring natural 
capital or building green infrastructure. 

Investment themes for the long run
Our themes have both a sustainable angle – energy transition and environmental 
sustainability – and a focus on enduring trends. These trends include innovation and 
disruption via new technology, the appeal of private markets and the emergence 
of China. While any significant re-rating of China A-shares may be unlikely now, 
valuations appear attractive and argue for strategic positioning. Opportunities 
include consumption upgrading and hard-tech development. 

Macroeconomics and markets
These sections highlight that: 
• The global economy is on the brink of recession as policy rates shoot higher, 
Europe faces an energy shock, and China struggles with zero-Covid policies and 
fragile property markets. 
• The Chinese government has scope to stimulate growth, but in the West, 
government measures to aid households and companies may undermine central 
bank inflation-busting. 
• Equities face a struggle to generate above-average returns, even as the disconnect 
between still relatively optimistic corporate earnings expectations and economic 
reality narrows. We are neutral, with deep caution in Europe offset by optimism 
for US growth stocks. 
• Within fixed income, eurozone investment-grade credit offers the most attractive 
opportunity with wide spreads, but generally good corporate fundamentals. 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  6  - 

The global economy seems on an inevitable march towards recession. The causes 
are well-known: central banks aggressively raising policy rates to reduce inflation, 
an energy shock in Europe, and zero-Covid policies (ZCP) and a shaky property 
market in China. 

Much of Europe is already in recession. We expect one to begin in the US in the third 
quarter of 2023, and while China’s growth will likely not turn negative, it will be 
below historic levels. 

One can easily think of ways in which the situation could yet worsen: a breakdown 
in a key financial market due to the rapid rise in interest rates, a cold winter and 
blackouts in Europe, or a flare-up in geopolitical tensions between the US and China. 

US
Given the strength of the US labour market, reflected not only in a low unemployment 
rate, but also in high (nominal) wage gains, declines in non-farm payrolls in 2023 
will likely be necessary. Consumer demand will weaken, even though households 
still have a large amount of ‘excess’ savings. These savings are falling and, we should 
note, are concentrated among high-income/low-consumption households. 

A deterioration of the labour market will be key to bringing services inflation under 
control. Goods inflation should drop thanks to base effects and lower demand, while 

MACRO OUTLOOK

DANIEL MORRIS

Chief market strategist 

The recession march
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  7  - 

shelter costs will eventually reflect the ongoing slowdown in the housing market. We 
anticipate core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) inflation will fall below 3% 
by the end of 2023. 

One open question is whether wage inflation can be reduced without a large increase 
in unemployment. The number of job vacancies relative to the size of the labour 
force is still about twice the long-run average1, meaning companies are forced to 
raise wages to attract workers (see Exhibit 1). Historically, vacancies only decline 
significantly when the unemployment rate rises. The US Federal Reserve believes 
that the currently high number of vacancies reflects the reorganisation of the labour 
market and the economy following the pandemic. As that process ends, vacancies 
could fall without the unemployment rate necessarily rising. 

There is another reason to believe the unemployment rate may not rise very much. 
US companies have learned from the lockdown recession that firing employees may 
reduce costs in the short term, but it creates problems later on. They may move 
towards a more European model, where employees are kept on the payroll through 
a recession, allowing for a swifter and smoother recovery later.

Offsetting the drag from higher policy rates will be the ongoing investments triggered 
by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, which 
will direct nearly USD 400 billion in tax credits and subsidies for numerous clean 
energy programmes.

Exhibit 1: Wage gains will only slow once job openings fall
Openings as % of civilian labour force (CLF) and employment cost index

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

2000
2005
2010
2015
2020

Job openings (% of CLF)

Compensation (YoY %)

Data as at August 2022. Sources: FactSet, BNP Paribas Asset Management.

1. As of November 2022
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  8  - 

Eurozone
Europe is facing an energy shock unlike anything the region has seen since the OPEC 
price increases in the 1970s (see Exhibit 2). Even though gas prices have moderated 
of late, they are still 10 times higher than the average in 2019. 
 
Inflation is in double digits in some countries, consumer sentiment has collapsed, 
and demand is weakening along with disposable income. Nonetheless, we believe 
headline inflation has peaked and will return to the ECB’s 2% target in 2024. 

The response of governments to economic shocks has changed since the pandemic. 
Instead of counting on automatic stabilisers such as unemployment insurance to 
tide households through the downturn, governments have resorted to more direct 
support to mitigate any decline in income (or corporate profits). 

This strategy was comparatively easy during the pandemic as policy rates and 
inflation were low and central banks were purchasing government debt. The recent 
experience of the UK, however, shows the limits of these policies now that inflation 
is well above target and central banks are looking to reduce the size of their balance 
sheets. While Germany can afford a EUR 200 billion support package, other countries 
may not. When Italian government bond yields were above 4% prior to the global 
financial crisis, the country’s debt was a few percentage points less than its GDP. It is 
now 40% greater. In 2022, debt-GDP ratios nonetheless improved, but in 2023, they 
will likely see a deterioration. Governments will need to ensure further expenditure 
is targeted to avoid a countervailing response to any stimulus from the ECB. 

The EUR 2 trillion NextGenerationEU recovery plan (the largest EU stimulus package 
ever) will be key to creating a “greener, more digital and more resilient Europe”.

Exhibit 2: Energy shock is on par with OPEC crisis in the 1970s
Indexed energy prices relative to month of lowest price, log scale

12.5

25

50

100

200

400

800

1600

12.5

25

50

100

200

400

800

1600

-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70

Natural gas (100=2019 avg)

Brent oil (100=1973 avg)

Brent oil (100=2019 avg)

Months from price low

Data as at 21 Oct. 2022. Sources: Bloomberg, BNP Paribas Asset Management
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  9  - 

China
The two factors that were dragging on Chinese growth in 2022 — its zero-Covid 
policies and an unsteady property market — should moderate in 2023, allowing the 
economy to rebound, though growth will likely remain below pre-pandemic levels. 

Covid infections in China have spiked again. Nevertheless, the government has 
reiterated its commitment to ZCP. At the same time, work on an mRNA vaccine is 
progressing and it should eventually be rolled out. We now know from experience 
that economic activity can rebound quickly once restrictions are lifted. 

The problems in the property market will likely take longer to address. The recent 
Communist Party Congress signalled there would be longer-term policies to develop 
a housing system that ensures supply from multiple sources and the development of 
both rental and property sales markets. In the near term, the government is looking 
to targeted policies to support the recovery of the sector. 

President Xi’s Party Congress speech was also notable for its emphasis on speeding 
up the transition to green development and meeting carbon emissions goals. This 
should be another source of long-term demand for companies in the relevant 
industries.

A key distinction between China and the US and Europe is the scope the government 
has to stimulate the economy, through either fiscal or monetary measures. While 
core inflation is at over 4% in the eurozone and over 6% in the US, in China, it is at 
just 0.4% (see Exhibit 3).2

Exhibit 3: Core inflation in China far lower than in the US or eurozone
Core CPI, year-on-year change

0.4

4.7

6.6

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

China
Eurozone
US core CPI

Data as at Sept. 2022. Sources: Haver, BNP Paribas Asset Management.

2. As of November 2022
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  1 0  - 

2022 has been an extraordinary year, marking the end of an extraordinary decade and 
a half since the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). A sharp and swift rise in real discount 
rates caused bruising losses across asset classes, ending the panacea that ‘lower for 
longer’ interest rates delivered for risky assets over many decades. For example, an 
investor in a portfolio of 60% global equities and 40% government bonds had lost an 
eye-watering 20% by late October. That is a far cry from the 9-10% she or he would 
have grown accustomed to making over the last 50-odd years. These losses were the 
steepest incurred in a generation – including 2008, which saw losses of ‘just’ 14%. 

We, as others, had seen this steep rise in real yields as the chief risk facing financial 
markets in 2022. Our multi-asset portfolios were short duration, neutral equities 
(through a combination of long Asia and short Europe), and long commodities for much 
of 2022. Yet, as sovereign bond yields, particularly real yields, quickly approached 
post-GFC highs, we took profits on our long-standing short in government bonds. 

One of the biggest questions for 2023 is how soon central banks will pause, or even 
reverse, their discount rate increases and what impact this will have on the value of 
cash flows across asset classes. Certainly in 2022, the bulk of asset market moves 
can be explained by changes in the discount rate. 

We are now turning more constructive on corporate credit, particularly higher-
grade credit in Europe. Here, we believe low valuations (that is, high spreads), do 

MARKETS OUTLOOK

MAYA BHANDARI

Global head of multi-asset 

Taking stock
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 1  -

Exhibit 1: Real interest rates have moved significantly
Three-month moving average

-1.5

-1.0

-0.5

0.0

0.5

1.0

1.5

2.0

2.5

%

-1.5

-1.0

-0.5

0.0

0.5

1.0

1.5

2.0

2.5

3.0

2005
2010
2015
2020

5 year-5 year US real yields

Data as at 25 Oct. 2022. Sources: Bloomberg, BNP Paribas Asset Management.

not accurately reflect what we believe are favourable fundamentals. We are not 
yet ready to add more broadly to riskier assets such as equities. We are still 
concerned over greater downside to both growth and earnings, and continued 

geopolitical uncertainty could weigh further on cash flow projections. At the same 
time, we acknowledge that areas including long-duration US tech companies are 
starting to look interesting as 2022 draws to a close. 

Every risk has its price

There are usually a handful of key judgements upon which one’s investment 
views ultimately rest. Today, there are three particular questions that matter 
enormously for return prospects in 2023. 

1. When will the US Federal Reserve and other major central banks pivot towards
lowering policy rates?
2. How deep will the growth and earnings correction be?
3. (The biggest unknown) How great will geopolitical disruption from China, Russia-
Ukraine, the US, and Europe (including the UK) be in 2023?

The Fed has so far delivered the sharpest speed 
of policy tightening ever

The Fed has so far delivered the sharpest speed of policy tightening ever delivered. 
When will they pause and to allow effects of the increases to work their way through 
the system, avoiding the policy error of pushing on the brakes too hard? On balance, 
our judgment is that the odds of a quicker, sharper policy pivot are mounting, and 
prospectively quite fast. 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 2  -

Interest rates, both real and nominal, both current and implied, increased 
dramatically in major economies in 2022. While the increase occurred across the 
curve, it was particularly sharp at the short end. The 500bp rise in 2-year real rates 
since March was has been remarkable, as was the move in the expected level of 
fed funds in three years from 1.5% to 5% in just six months. Five-year real rates 
(measured five years ahead), that many view as a long-term guide for ‘neutral’ policy 
rates, have soared from 50-year to levels last seen prior to the GFC. They stood at 
just -85bp in the US and -1.4% in Europe a year ago, whereas at the time of writing 
they were 1.50% and 1.25%, respectively. There are good reasons for those levels, 
including a significant shift in the fiscal-monetary mix, a turn in structural trends 
such as globalisation that had preserved the downtrend in government bonds, and 
favourable demographics. But there are good reasons, too, for them to pause for 
breath, with mounting headwinds for both inflation and growth. 

Persistently high inflation has tested 
central bank credibility

Persistently high inflation has tested central bank credibility, forcing them to set 
interest rates in the ‘rear view mirror’. But effective policy rates are now priced to 
reach a fairly restrictive 5.0-5.5% in the US1 and 2.25% in Europe by mid-2023, just 
as growth and inflation weaken from the tightening already feeding through the 
system. We believe a pause in the rate hikes (which have been the dominant driver 
of weakness in asset prices in 2022), could offer some respite for risk assets. The 
question is how much. 

Exhibit 2: Implied default rates are high
Investment grade credit index spread and default rates

0.000

0.025

0.050

0.075

0.100

0.125

0.150

25

50

75

100

125

150

175

200

2011
2013
2015
2017
2019
2021

EUR IG index CDS (lhs)

5-yr implied default rate (rhs)

Worst 5-yr default rate (rhs)

Average 5-yr default rate (rhs)

Data as at 24 Oct. 2022. Sources: MacroBond, BNP Paribas Asset Management 

1.
4.9% in OIS rates plus 50bp for balance sheet runoff using the Fed’s own estimates
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 3  -

Staying long high-quality European corporate credit at fairly distressed valuations is 
one area that continues to look compelling to us. At the time of writing, spreads are 
at 2020 crisis levels for the best-rated European corporates, with an implied default 
rate of around 10%. That is more than twice the worst five-year rate and eight times 
the average. Furthermore, and unusually at this point in the cycle, leverage ratios at 
these companies are contained and falling, interest coverage is high and corporate 
balance sheets are firm. The pressure then on companies to de-lever, which is what 
tends to dent credit as economic cycles weaken, is conspicuously absent this time 
as companies enter a potential recession long cash and with longer duration debt. 

Our judgement here is cautious on what it means 
 for earnings, or equity cash flows

This leads neatly to the second question raised above: the depth of the coming growth 
correction, and the state of household balance sheets, as 2022 draws to a close 
with double-digit inflation. This environment makes us more cautious, particularly 
as far as earnings are concerned. Consequently, we are leaning away from investing 
in assets lower down the capital structure, especially equities, in more challenged 
areas such as Europe. 

Our economics team expects the US to lose three million jobs early in 2023, with 
payrolls falling by 300 000 or more. The housing market is expected to continue 
weakening. We see mortgage rates nearly 400bp higher than in the summer of 2021 
and mortgage applications falling steeply. Europe’s economic outlook is similarly 
poor, with greater downside risks from the war in Ukraine and the energy crisis, and 
households with a smaller savings buffer. We know from the GFC the impact of a 

Exhibit 3: Equities are not cheap
Twelve-month forward PE ratio 10-90th percentile range (15 years)

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Last

ACWI
World
EM
USA
Nasdaq
EMU
UK
APxJ
Japan
China

Data as at 24 Oct. 2022. Sources: Bloomberg, BNP Paribas Asset Management. 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 4  -

wilting housing market on growth, and we are now having the additional impact of 
sticky and rising housing rents on services inflation. This increasingly fragile 

macroeconomic environment seems profoundly disconnected with relatively 
optimistic corporate earnings expectations. As a result we are neutral on equities, but 
with a deeply cautious view on Europe balanced by more optimism towards China 
and Japan. While equites delivered double-digit total return losses in 2022, and 
valuations cheapened from January 2022’s lofty highs, losses would have been 
steeper were it not for expectations of positive earnings growth for 2022 and 2023. 

This increasingly fragile macroeconomic  
environment seems profoundly disconnected

Earnings expectations are at best a coincident indicator, but they are too high for the 
macroeconomic setting just described. We have several frameworks for thinking about 
where earnings and valuations should be at different points in the cycle. With the 
exception of Asia and, more recently the US Nasdaq index, our research points to further 
falls to come — from both lower valuations and earnings — before we reach fair value. 

Lastly, geopolitical risks pepper the investment horizon. This is something we will 
monitor closely in 2023. The evolution of the Ukraine war and the energy crisis; 
China’s approach to Taiwan and the reopening of its economy; trade wars and their 
impact on supply chains – each of these developments could alter the path of both 
cash flows and discount rates. With no quick resolution in sight, risks here are likely 
to remain elevated.

Exhibit 4: Some markets are very mispriced
Gap in EPS and PE vs. model

-30

-20

-10

0

10

20

30

40

50

-30

-20

-10

0

10

20

30

40

50

MSCI
World AC
(USD)

MSCI
World
(USD)

MSCI USA Nasdaq
100
MSCI
Europe
MSCI EMU MSCI UK
MSCI
Japan
MSCI
Emerging

PE gap
EPS gap

Misprice (%)

Data as at 24 Oct. 2022. Sources: Bloomberg, BNP Paribas Asset Management
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 5  -

Focus on fixed income - A new bond world

Fixed income bonds saw unprecedentedly poor returns in 2022, with all key sectors 

posting a negative performance (as at 10 November 2022) due to a normalisation 
of policy rates, recession hurting credit spreads, and liquidity shocks driving up 
volatility. After a more than 50-year bull market, a new bond world has emerged in 
which it is now possible to earn a positive absolute performance. 

Central banks have managed to drive interest rates to normalised levels, meaning 
rates should not need to rise meaningfully from here. Five year-five year real yields 
in the US and the eurozone have returned to their post-Global Financial Crisis highs. 
Consequently, carry will be essential in generating returns in the future. Investors 
should recall that historically, carry accounts for the bulk of fixed i ncome total 
returns. The transition to the new world is not complete, however, meaning volatility 
will likely remain high and asset allocation is crucial. 2023 will see both growth and 
inflation decelerate and accelerate, calling for different allocations depending on the 
macroeconomic regime. 

Any return to fixed income should focus on core assets such as money market 
instruments, government bonds and investment-grade credit, alongside diversifying 
satellite investments in flexible bonds, green bonds and emerging market debt. 

Investing back in money markets is attractive as they offer visibility thanks to short 
duration, and now attractive yields given the substantial rise in short-term rates. We 
could see declines in US policy rates by the end of 2023, though this is less likely in 
the eurozone. 

We believe eurozone investment-grade credit is attractive as spreads at the time 
of writing are commensurate with much higher default rates than we think will 
actually materialise. 

Exhibit 1: Bond market themes for 2023

Normalisation is done
Central banks have normalised 
rates (NEW WORLD)

Carry is essential
Investors must capture yields
(RETURN)

Volatility is possible
Allocation is crucial
(PERFORMANCE)

1

Source: BNP Paribas Asset Management as of November 2022

I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 5  -
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 6  -

SUSTAINABILITY

JANE AMBACHTSHEER 

Global head of sustainability

ALEXANDER BERNHARDT

Global head of sustainability research

In early 2005, United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan invited a group of the 
world’s largest institutional investors to help develop the Principles for Responsible 
Investment (PRI). Only a few years later, the excesses of a lightly regulated financial 
system would spark a global economic crisis while undermining many of the 
financial models used till then. In retrospect, this was an appropriate time for 
finance to begin to wake up to some of the excesses of corporate behaviour it was 
enabling. Since then, we have seen a ten-fold increase in sustainable investment 
related regulations. Here, we explore this evolution and the path that lies ahead. 

The great financial crisis raised important questions about the role of finance. 
The industry has long interpreted its fiduciary duty to clients as a requirement to 
‘maximise’ financial returns for ‘beneficiaries’, most often on a horizon of quarters 
or years. 

Since 2005, the industry has rigorously debated the impact of integrating 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria into this duty. The discussion 
has been buffeted by parallel debates over the timeframe across which return 
maximisation should be sought and for which beneficiaries. 

In 2005, the research basis for understanding the financial impact of ESG 
considerations was relatively thin. Since then, our understanding of this topic has 
grown massively. 

The evolution of sustainable finance
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 7  -

There is much to do to realise ESG integration with 
proper strength and accuracy across portfolios

ESG factors and investment outcomes
What we can now say with some certainty is that ESG integration – at corporate and 
fund levels – more often than not leads to better financial outcomes. Thanks largely 
to the efforts of the PRI and other industry groups, the fiduciary duty debate has 
largely been put to bed. Investors controlling more than USD 100 trillion in assets 
have agreed at the highest levels to this preface to the PRI’s six principles: 

“As institutional investors, we have a duty to act in the best long-term interests 
of our beneficiaries. In this fiduciary role, we believe that environmental, social, 
and corporate governance (ESG) issues can affect the performance of investment 
portfolios (to varying degrees across companies, sectors, regions, asset classes 
and through time). We also recognise that applying these Principles may better 
align investors with broader objectives of society.”

While the investment industry agrees in principle, much remains to be done to 
realise ESG integration with proper strength and accuracy across portfolios. The 
gap between ambition and actuality underlies much of the recent criticism of ESG 
(namely greenwashing) revolving around misleading claims by some investors 
and the messiness of ESG data. Regulators have stepped up their efforts to create 
clarity on the definition and application of ‘sustainability’. Sustainable investment 
regulations have grown globally from below 50 in 2015 to more than 500.1 

Tackling ESG criticism
Here, we explore some of the criticisms. Often, they go too far and warrant a closer 
look on the basis of the following: 

•
ESG has been an attention grabber, not a distraction. ESG integration efforts have
highlighted issues such as climate risk and diversity. This has likely accelerated
corporate and policy action rather than distracted from them.
•
What’s your counterfactual? Admittedly, many environmental and social
indicators have worsened over the past 20 years. But would the environment and
society be better off if the investment industry had ignored ESG as was largely the
case before 2004? That is unlikely.
•
ESG is just data. At the most basic level, ESG indicators convey dispassionate
information about company management that can materially impact results. True,
the data is often sparsely disclosed, rarely audited and diversely interpreted. For
thoughtful investors, properly analysed data can convey important and tradable
information which can lead to outperformance.

1.
Source: PRI responsible investment regulation database, 2021
https://www.unpri.org/policy/regulation-database
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 8  -

•
Fees aren’t the issue. Some critics say the industry uses ESG as an excuse to
charge more. While this may be the case for some passive funds and their
ESG equivalents, the data does not support this claim for the bulk of actively
managed ESG funds. For the most part, ESG funds are priced similarly to
equivalent standard funds.
•
ESG is more than just emissions. While climate change can be seen as the most
important global systemic risk, it is not the only one. For instance, if we succeed
in cutting emissions, but exacerbate inequality, we will be trading one systemic
risk for another.

The ability to generate sustainable returns relies 
on a healthy planet and population

Necessary step to sustainable finance
Before ESG, there was Socially Responsible Investing. SRI was dedicated to the 
creation of a just and sustainable economic system. With the advent of the PRI, 
the focus shifted to ESG factors. This stripped away notions of responsibility and 
irresponsibility to focus on the bottom line and the financial risks and rewards of 
accounting for these factors. 

The success of the ESG movement has set the table for broader discussions on the 
future of sustainable finance. We are coming full circle, moving away from a pure 
financial focus on integrating ESG factors towards recognising that investors have 
real impact on the world – and that their ability to generate sustainable returns relies 
on a healthy planet and population. More than 270 asset managers with some USD 
61 trillion in assets under management have now committed to net zero portfolio 
emissions by 2050 by signing the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative.2 

Without the efforts of the PRI and other industry groups, we would not now see ESG 
issues on the agendas in most boardrooms and policy action being taken to address 
ESG transparency and encourage investment in sustainability solutions. 

We also see that the world has not made the required progress towards a low-
carbon, environmentally sustainable and inclusive economy that we collectively 
require to ensure long-term returns. This means there is more to do. The 
astounding growth of the ‘ESG industry’ has forced a long overdue discussion on 
the intersection between societal well-being and investment. What was old is new 
again, and hopefully, just in time. 

2.
Net Zero Asset Managers initiative publishes initial targets for 43 signatories as the number of asset
managers committing to net zero grows to 273 – The Net Zero Asset Managers initiative
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 1 9  -

ENVIRONMENTAL THEMATICS

History can help assess the future 

ULRIK FUGMANN

Co-head environmental 
strategies group

EDWARD LEES

Co-head environmental 
strategies group

Understanding the drivers of past industrial revolutions can be invaluable when 
assessing long-term investment opportunities such as those presented by the 
effects of climate change and the current energy crisis. What the lessons can 
investors draw from economic history?

Even amid the headwinds from crises such as the food and energy supply stress and 
extreme climate phenomena, the world is on the cusp of a new industrial revolution 
– one that could allow capacity – and resources – to be used more efficiently and
lead to a greener and more sustainable future.

‘Industry 4.0’ – involving such advances as the smart factory, autonomous systems, 
3D printing and machine learning – promises to provide us with the tools for a 
replenished biosphere, greater energy and food security, and improved living 
standards and job opportunities. 

It also looks set to usher in a sharing economy involving ‘open source’ approaches 
to information and innovation which can accelerate change including the energy 
transition. A practical example: in such a setting, people will more rarely own cars; 
they will simply hire a (probably autonomous electric) vehicle when they need to. 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 0  -

The road to industry 4.0
Such progress needs massive investment. However, assessing which will be the 
long-term winners and avoiding the short-term ‘fads’ can be a challenge. A look at 
previous revolutions can help. 

The original industrial revolution, in England between 1760 and 1860, was driven by 
technological progress, education, and a growing capital stock. It turned the country 
into ‘the workshop of the world’ and brought about a sustained rise in real income 
per head. 

The second industrial revolution, in the US from the 1850s, was driven by factors 
such as electrification, crude oil production, the rapid spread of telephony, and 
assembly-line vehicle production. These helped ignite the country’s ascent to a 
global superpower. 

By the early 2000s, the productivity potential of the infrastructure upon which the 
second industrial revolution was built had become exhausted. A new technological 
infrastructure emerged, driven by computers, IT networks and robotics. These sowed 
the seeds of Industry 4.0. 

This latest revolution could be transformative, 
for economies, the environment, and the way 
societies are organised

This latest revolution could be transformative, for economies, the environment, and 
the way societies are organised. Technological advances will help reduce the cost 

Exhibit 1: The fourth industrial revolution has already begun

1st 
1760-1860 
Industrial revolution
• Steam power, water power, mechanisation

2nd 
1850s-1914 
Technological revolution
• Electrification, mass production, division of labour

3rd 
1969-2000s 
Digital revolution
• Computers, internet, automation

4th 
2010s-present 
Industry 4.0
• physical systems, internet of things, robotisation

Source: visualcapitalist.com, BNP Paribas Asset Management.
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 1  -

of producing and delivering more and more goods and services to near zero (or a 
marginal amount). 

Over the next decade, Industry 4.0 infrastructure looks set to expand to include, 
for example, self-driving cars using cheap renewable energy on smart transport 
‘internets’. This should allow people to share mobility, but also communication and 
energy. 

Identifying themes and winners
How can we identify those companies that can survive and prosper for the next 10 
to 20 years?

In our view, history has shown that the rate of technological change and cost 
declines have often surpassed projections. Just look at the share of electricity from 
renewable sources in total US power generation. Environmental solutions such as 
green hydrogen, solar energy or bio-plastics are disrupting manufacturing and supply 
chains and transforming global consumer behaviour. 

Understanding this accelerating consumption 
transformation helps to inform  
our investment decisions

Understanding this accelerating transformation – and, importantly, its impact on 
the industries affected by it – helps to inform our investment decisions. We seek to 
benefit from the penetration of transformative technologies, the growth rates that 
this advance brings for industries and companies, and what this means for their 
lifecycles. 

Finding winners takes research, an open mind, and the ability to examine challenges 
and opportunities from multiple perspectives. It also means having the conviction to 
strictly target positive environmental outcomes. 

What is required is a wider understanding of the breadth – and, crucially, the inter-
relatedness – of the challenges that, for example, the energy crisis presents and 
the opportunities it creates, such as an accelerated transition to renewable, locally 
produced sources of energy. 

A thorough understanding of previous and current periods of disruption can help 
us identify the potential investment winners of the coming new carbon-free age. 
And we are convinced that active investment management is the key to identifying 
companies that can outperform. 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 2  -

DISRUPTIVE TECH

Secular growth drivers dominate

PAM HEGARTY

Portfolio manager

VINCENT NICHOLS

Investment specialist

The outlook for the technology sector in 2023 is difficult to assess, given the 
significant macroeconomic and geopolitical headwinds. However, we remain 
confident in the durability of the secular growth drivers that underpin our strategy 
– cloud computing, artificial intelligence, automation, and the Internet of Things –
as well as the foundational technologies that enable these themes. We believe that
the leaders and beneficiaries of digital transformation will deliver superior revenue
growth, earnings, cash flows, and returns over a long-term investment horizon.

During most of 2022, the tech sector underperformed the broader market as interest 
rates rose. As a result, valuations have compressed, with little to no ‘froth’ left today, 
especially in the semiconductor and software industries. 

While negative earnings revisions are likely as the economy slows, we see potential 
for the sector to outperform on a relative basis, given the historical resilience of tech 
profits during recessions. As growth becomes scarcer, investors may once again be 
willing to pay up for quality growth. 

Opportunities as we head into 2023 
1. The adoption of cloud computing, artificial intelligence (AI), automation, and the
Internet of Things continue as companies strive to save costs and make better
decisions.
2. The strategic importance of the digital transformation should provide resiliency to
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 3  -

corporate spending on information technology (IT). Gartner forecasts 5% growth 
in IT spending in 2023. Cybersecurity is one area that we expect to hold up well. 
3. Semiconductor demand may prove resilient in end-markets including automotive
(where electronic content is increasing and inventories remain low) and datacentre 
(depending on the resiliency of spending to support cloud and AI initiatives).
4. Valuations look compelling. We estimate the average enterprise value to next-
twelve-month estimated sales ratio for North American software stocks to be
nearly back to 6x. That is close to the 2013-2018 level and 32% below the most
recent five-year average (see Exhibit 1).
5. Most semiconductor stocks are trading near (or below) our worst-case scenarios,
as investors have priced in inventory corrections across all end-markets.
6. Longer duration real yields have arguably peaked. So even as the US Federal
Reserve continues to raise rates, valuations should not necessarily decline further.
Additionally, growth will again become scarce, likely leading investors to gravitate
back towards quality growth.

IT spending and semiconductor demand should prove 
resilient, while valuations look compelling

What are the risks?:
1. Real interest rates could rise further, which would have a negative impact on the
valuation of long duration assets.
2. Weakness in consumer spending on personal computers and low-end smartphones 
could spread to commercial and enterprise customers and other end-markets.

Exhibit 1: Software stock valuations have improved dramatically
Average EV-NTM sales ratio of North American software stocks

3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
x

3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
x

2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022

EV/Sales
5-yr trailing average
2013-2019 average

Data as at 25 Oct. 2022. Sources: FactSet, BNP Paribas Asset Management.
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 4  -

3. COVID beneficiaries such as the e-commerce sector might continue to underperform 
as growth reverts to pre-pandemic trend lines.
4. The Ukraine war, the Sino-US trade war, and authoritarian and nationalist 
movements, including supply chain nationalism, are creating uncertainty.
5. Regulation remains a risk. 

Secular growth drivers should dominate short-term 
concerns over a three-plus year horizon

In summary
We believe bottom-up fundamental stock research, combined with portfolio construction 
discipline, is the best approach for navigating the uncertainty. We are revisiting each 
company-level financial model to stress-test it for recession scenarios and ensure our 
target prices are conservative. 

We have analysed our holdings based on their revenue growth potential and stability 
over the next three years, and the strength of their ‘moat’, or their competitive 
positioning and balance sheet strength. We are invested in high-quality, stable-growth 
names with deep ‘moats’. As for the more speculative growth stocks with longer 
duration cash flows, our positions are modest. 

We are looking for stocks that have de-risked or have idiosyncratic drivers that will 
prove to be resilient in a recession. Examples include Micron Technology1, where 
earnings revisions have fallen sharply and the stock is now trading at barely above 
book value, and First Solar1, which has fully contracted all of its production for the next 
two years, while US tax credits should allow it to expand production capacity. 

We are confident that secular growth drivers will dominate short-term cyclical concerns 
over a three-plus year investment horizon. We focus on owning sustainable leaders 
or beneficiaries of the digital transformation, with enduring competitive advantages, 
trading at compelling valuations. 

1.
These stocks are mentioned for illustrative purposes only. BNP Paribas Asset Management strategies may or
may not hold positions in these stocks. The value of investments and the income they generate may go down as
well as up and it is possible that investors will not recover their initial outlay. Past performance is no guarantee
for future returns.
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 5  -

CHINA

Deglobalisation in the context of ‘China decoupling’

CHI LO

Senior market strategist APAC

‘Decouple-from-China’ has been a market issue since the Sino-US trade war 
started in 2018, with some large developed countries pushing for reshoring their 
global production. This has led to concern about deglobalisation, or the breaking-
up of supply chains and decelerating cross-border trade and investment. These 
developments have shaken the argument for investing in Asia, including China, 
which lies at the heart of many global supply chains. 

Restrictions on technology transfers, among other trade-disrupting measures, are 
currently the biggest uncertainty for Asia; a third of its exports involve electronic and 
other tech products. 

The Covid-19 crisis aggravated the concern over the outlook for manufacturing in 
Asia – disrupting global supply chains and creating shortages of everything from 
building materials and car parts to semiconductors. 

Asia’s supply chains shifting
Though these worries have driven some large companies to cut their sourcing from 
or manufacturing operations in Asia and to shift them elsewhere, we see no large-
scale decoupling from either the region or from China. 

Firstly, defying expectations that the trade war and the pandemic would crimp Sino-
US bilateral trade, trade actually rose from an annualised USD 620 billion in June 
2018 to USD 801 billion in August 2022. This was partly because US shipments to 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  2 6  - 

China picked up, even though Chinese purchases fell short of the so-called Phase One 
deal signed in January 2020. 

Secondly, rather than reducing their reliance on Asian supply chains, US importers 
have increased imports from the wider ASEAN region.1

Flows of foreign direct investment (FDI) to China have risen over the last six years 
(see Exhibit 1).

Buying more from ASEAN does not mean  
buying less or decoupling from China

No decoupling 
Buying more from ASEAN does not mean buying less or decoupling from China. 
Rather, this shift in the pattern of imports illustrates a so-called ‘China + 1’ strategy, 
in which companies keep producing in China for the local market while moving some 
capacity to ASEAN. 

Relocation is a means to manage the supply chain disruption due to economic, political 
and, most recently, Covid-19 considerations. This is reflected in the rising flow of FDI 
to ASEAN (see Exhibit 2). The persistence of investment in China underscores our 
long-held ‘Invest in China for China’ view since the US shifted its China policy from 
constructive engagement to strategic competition in 2016. 

1. The ASEAN member states include Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, 
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

Exhibit 1: Foreign direct investment flows to China have continued - no signs 
of decoupling (balance of payments data, USD bln, 4 quarter rolling sum)

-100

-50

0

50

100

150

200

250

300

350

1999
2001
2004
2006
2009
2012
2014
2017
2019
2022

net FDI
gross infows

Sources: CEIC, BNP Paribas Asset Management, data as of October.2022
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
-  2 7  - 

Crucially, a large share of the FDI flows to ASEAN comes from China, which accounts 
for 40% of the total now as compared to only 10% a few years ago. This actually 
strengthens the supply-chain integration between ASEAN and China rather than 
weakening it. Components used to be shipped from ASEAN to China, which then sold 
them to the world markets. That made China the world’s factory. Now the process 
appears to be reversing: China supplies ASEAN with products that power the region’s 
exports to the world. This shift in the supply-chain integration process has expanded 
the world’s factory to now include Asia. 

The persistence of investment in China underscores 
our long-held ‘Invest in China for China’ view

Implications
Asia’s supply chain shift also reflects China’s ‘dual circulation’ policy. Beijing aims to 
use its internal growth impetus to drive domestic and regional growth. This potential 
is a strong basis for long-term investment in emerging Asia and China. 

From a macroeconomic perspective, this development will likely lead to strong 
intra-regional economic linkages confounding the deglobalisation trend. With 
inflation concerns rising and companies facing higher input price pressures, the cost 
advantages of sourcing from Asia, whose supply chains have integrated further with 
China, are becoming more obvious. 

Subtle shifts are underway to make Asia an emerging production hub for world 
markets. We see little evidence yet of global and regional decoupling from China. 
One can run, but not hide, from the Middle Kingdom. 

Exhibit 2: Rising foreign direct investment inflows to ASEAN
(balance of payments data, USD bln) 

0

20

40

60

80

100

120

140

160

180

200

 1980  1983  1986  1989  1992  1995  1998  2001  2004  2007  2010  2013  2016  2019

Sources: CEIC, BNP Paribas Asset Management, data as of October.2022
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 8  -

PRIVATE MARKETS

KAREN AZOULAY

Head of infrastructure debt

Resilience in private markets - infrastructure debt

Almost USD 10 trillion has now been invested in these markets, in what has 
become a global and ever more diverse asset class spanning corporate loans, 
real assets, structured finance and other instruments. In this article, we focus on 
infrastructure debt.

Amid the search for yield and the need for portfolio quality, the private debt segment 
is becoming increasingly relevant. Having grown by 13-14% a year over the past 
decade, total private debt assets under management (AUM) now exceed well over 
USD 1 trillion. 

As an asset class, private debt has been resilient across economic cycles. As an 
example, it was the only private markets asset class to have increased fundraising 
every year since 2011, including during the pandemic. 

For investors willing to invest their money for longer periods, private debt can be 
a good portfolio diversifier, offering low volatility and a low correlation to listed 
markets. Other attractions include an appealing relative value, inflation-linked cash 
flows and an illiquidity premium over listed assets. 

Floating rate instruments are part of the segment. They can be more attractive than 
vanilla bonds as their coupon is linked to a base rate, allowing it to increase amid 
rising market interest rates. 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 2 9  -

Recession-proof essential services
Historically, infrastructure debt has shown itself to be a haven. This segment offers 
a diverse range of exposures across many defensive sectors (see Exhibit 1) and risk-
return profiles. 

Overall, we believe the segment is well positioned for recession, for the same reasons 
that it navigated the pandemic better than other asset classes: many infrastructure 
projects involve essential services that are in demand in times of boom and times 
of bust. In other words, when times are tough, people will still need rail networks, 
energy to heat and light their homes, etc. 

Infrastructure debt is well positioned for recession

As investments, infrastructure assets – from fibre optic networks and car parks to 
utilities and roads – are marked by high barriers to entry: projects cost large sums 
to complete, keeping competitors at bay. Often, they involve monopolistic market 
positions and regulated tariffs. Their long-dated cash flows across economic cycles 
offer stability to investors. 

Green infrastructure
Infrastructure debt also has environmental, social, and governance (ESG) aspects. 
Many infrastructure assets are at the forefront of the energy transition and 
digitalisation, partly on the back of the European Union's objectives for decarbonisation 
and net zero by 2050. 

Exhibit 1: Core infrastructure asset financing: European sector breakdown

Energy
24%

Telecommunication
23%
Renewables
21%

Transport
16%

Power
7%

Environment
4%

Social
4%
Other
1%

Source: Infranews & Inframation, January 2022.
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 3 0  -

These goals are driving investment decisions: Along with the large sums for phasing 
out conventional energy in the utilities sector, more renewable energy infrastructure 
will need to be built over the next few decades, for example, for electrified fleets and 
the greater use of (green) hydrogen. As for the role of digitalisation in decarbonisation, 
data analytics can help improve (energy) efficiency. 

In selecting investments, our proprietary ESG framework has been fully integrated in 
the investment process. It includes a comprehensive assessment by our Sustainability 
Centre, while an independent consultant assesses the impact of each investment 
based on induced and avoided emissions, the net environmental contribution and 
‘temperature alignment’ with the Paris Accord. 

Junior infrastructure debt, which delivers higher, 
equity-like returns, could be an attractive option 

Junior debt to weather the storm
Over the past 10 years, infrastructure debt has offered consistently higher yields 
than listed bonds, partly due to the additional return investors receive for forgoing 
the flexibility of publicly traded markets. While infrastructure debt returns have 
remained fairly consistent, central bank rate rises have boosted yields on government 
and corporate bonds, sapping the yield premium. 

For investors seeking a yield similar to equivalently rated corporate bonds, this has 
made the choice between these two asset classes less straightforward. However, we 
believe junior infrastructure debt, which delivers higher, equity-like returns while 
maintaining debt-like protections such as covenants, and contained risk, could be an 
attractive option. 

We see growing opportunities in the telecoms space: glass fibre networks are rolled 
out in Europe, datacentres and telecom towers are needed for the explosion of data 
usage and new 5G technology. Overall, we expect infrastructure debt as a segment to 
expand further, not least as the need for financing around the energy transition and 
decarbonisation continues to grow. 
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 3 1  -

ASSET CLASS OVERVIEW

Global government bonds (H)

Global corporate bonds (H) 

Global corporate high-yield (H) 

Commodities (H) 

Developed equities (UH) 

Global real estate (UH) 

H: hedged; UH: unhedged 
Source: Bloomberg, Quant Research Group, BNP Paribas Asset Management
Indices used: global real estate (RNGL), developed equities (MSDEWIN), global government bonds (SBWGEC), global corporate 
bonds (LGCPTREH), global corporate high-yield (LG30TRUH), commodities (BCOMHET); Bloomberg ticker in brackets
Past performance or achievement is not indicative of current or future performance.

Performance
+

Performance
-

2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022

21.2%
32%
11.5%
15.6%
8.4%
0.1%
30%
6.7%
36.9%
14.1%

6.5%
19.5%
10.4%
10.7%
7.5%
-0.2%
25.3%
6.3%
31.1%
-8.0%

0%
8.4%
1%
10.1%
3.7%
-2.7%
13.3%
5.7%
25.6%
-14.4%

-0.1%
7.5%
-0.5%
8.1%
0.3%
-3.8%
9.2%
4.8%
2.5%
-14.7%

-0.1%
2.6%
-0.7%
4.6%
-0.2%
-4.1%
4.5%
-5.2%
-1.7%
-16.3%

-9.8%
-17.8%
-25.9%
2.3%
-2.1%
-13.7%
4.3%
-15.8%
-3.1%
-18.8%

PERFORMANCE: Total return in EUR 
(as of 31 October 2022)
I N V E S T M E N T  O U T L O O K  F O R  2 0 2 3  
- 3 2  -

The sustainable 
investor for a 
changing world

November 2022 - Design: Creative Services BNPP AM - P2210080

The value of investments and the income they generate may go down as well as up and it is possible that investors will not recover their initial outlay. 
Investing in emerging markets, or specialised or restricted sectors is likely to be subject to a higher than average volatility due to a high degree of 
concentration, greater uncertainty because less information is available, there is less liquidity, or due to greater sensitivity to changes in market 
conditions (social, political and economic conditions). Some emerging markets offer less security than the majority of international developed markets. 
For this reason, services for portfolio transactions, liquidation and conservation on behalf of funds invested in emerging markets may carry greater risk. 

BNP Paribas Asset Management France, “the investment management company,” is a simplified joint stock company with its registered office at 1 
boulevard Haussmann 75009 Paris, France, RCS Paris 319 378 832, registered with the “Autorité des marchés financiers” under number GP 96002. 
This material is issued and has been prepared by the investment management company.
This material is produced for information purposes only and does not constitute:
1. an offer to buy nor a solicitation to sell, nor shall it form the basis of or be relied upon in connection with any contract or commitment whatsoever or
2. investment advice.
This material makes reference to certain financial instruments authorised and regulated in their jurisdiction(s) of incorporation.
No action has been taken which would permit the public offering of the financial instrument(s) in any other jurisdiction, except as indicated in the 
most recent prospectus and the Key Investor Information Document (KIID) of the relevant financial instrument(s) where such action would be required, 
in particular, in the United States, to US persons (as such term is defined in Regulation S of the United States Securities Act of 1933). Prior to any 
subscription in a country in which such financial instrument(s) is/are registered, investors should verify any legal constraints or restrictions there may 
be in connection with the subscription, purchase, possession or sale of the financial instrument(s).
Investors considering subscribing to the financial instrument(s) should read carefully the most recent prospectus and Key Investor Information Document 
(KIID) and consult the financial instrument(s’) most recent financial reports. These documents are available on the website.
Opinions included in this material constitute the judgement of the investment management company at the time specified and may be subject to change 
without notice. The investment management company is not obliged to update or alter the information or opinions contained within this material. 
Investors should consult their own legal and tax advisors in respect of legal, accounting, domicile and tax advice prior to investing in the financial 
instrument(s) in order to make an independent determination of the suitability and consequences of an investment therein, if permitted. Please note 
that different types of investments, if contained within this material, involve varying degrees of risk and there can be no assurance that any specific 
investment may either be suitable, appropriate or profitable for an investor’s investment portfolio.
Given the economic and market risks, there can be no assurance that the financial instrument(s) will achieve its/their investment objectives. Returns may 
be affected by, amongst other things, investment strategies or objectives of the financial instrument(s) and material market and economic conditions, 
including interest rates, market terms and general market conditions. The different strategies applied to financial instruments may have a significant 
effect on the results presented in this material. Past performance is not a guide to future performance and the value of the investments in financial 
instrument(s) may go down as well as up. Investors may not get back the amount they originally invested. The performance data, as applicable, reflected 
in this material, do not take into account the commissions, costs incurred on the issue and redemption and taxes. All information referred to in the 
present document is available on www.bnpparibas-am.com

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Investment Risk: The lack of common or harmonized definitions and labels integrating ESG and sustainability 
criteria at EU level may result in different approaches by managers when setting ESG objectives. This also means that it may be difficult to compare 
strategies integrating ESG and sustainability criteria to the extent that the selection and weightings applied to select investments may be based on 
metrics that may share the same name but have different underlying meanings. In evaluating a security based on the ESG and sustainability criteria, the 
Investment Manager may also use data sources provided by external ESG research providers. Given the evolving nature of ESG, these data sources may 
for the time being be incomplete, inaccurate or unavailable. Applying responsible business conduct standards in the investment process may lead to the 
exclusion of securities of certain issuers. Consequently, the Sub-Fund's performance may at times be better or worse than the performance of relatable 
funds that do not apply such standards.

PRODUCTION 
Daniel Morris, chief market strategist, co-head Investment Insights Centre
Andrew Craig, co-head Investment Insights Centre
Haktan Asalioglu, publication manager - Investment Insights Centre 
Nieck Ammerlaan, content manager - Investment Insights Centre
The Investment Insights Centre at BNP Paribas Asset Management produced this publication. AM.investmentinsights@bnpparibas.com 

Graphic design: Creative Services BNPP AM

Written: November 2022
