
 
 

Outlook 2023: 
See the potential 

Weaker growth, stronger markets 
Foreword  

Every year presents unique challenges. In 2020, together we confronted a global 
pandemic and lockdown. In 2021, global economies slowly reopened as parts of 
the world returned to more normal patterns of life.   

2022 has brought new headwinds, some we haven’t seen in over 40 years. 

As inflation proved more resilient than anticipated, rising to highs we haven’t seen 
in decades, central banks aggressively raised rates to slow its progress. With both 
stocks and bonds suffering significant losses, 2022 delivered one of the worst 
years ever for balanced portfolios. 

From a geopolitical perspective, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine caused great human 
suffering and disrupted global markets. 

To prepare for the year ahead, we rely on our world-class Global Investment 
Strategy Group to help us identify both the risks and opportunities that investors 
may face. Despite the headwinds to growth, they see the potential for stronger 
markets in 2023 and beyond. 

In times like these, we rely on each other and on the relationships we have 
created over time. We are honored to stand by your side.  

Thank you for your continued trust and confidence in J.P. Morgan. 

Sincerely, 

David Frame  
CEO, U.S. Private Bank 

Martin Marron  
CEO, International Private Bank 

2 
 
Highlights from the 2023 Outlook  

1.  

The best in a decade. A dramatic reset in valuations  
has, in our view, created the most attractive entry point 
for stocks and bonds in over a decade. 

2.  

Bad news, good news. The bad news: We think a  
recession is likely in 2023. The good news: Central  
banks should stop hiking and inflation will likely fall. 

3.  

Bonds are back. Core fixed income now offers the  
potential for protection, yield and capital appreciation.  

4.  

Reversal of fortunes. We expect mega-cap   
technology stocks to underperform and small  
cap stocks to outperform. 

5. 

Real money. The era of underinvestment in the real 
economy is over. 

3 
 

 
 
 
 
  

Contents  

INTRODUCTION 

Pgs. 4–6 

Out of the depths 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Pgs. 7–18 

The consequences of 
global policy tightening 

Pgs. 19–31 

Weakness across 
the global economy 

STRONGER MARKETS: VALUATION RESETS 

Pgs. 35–37 

Bonds 

Pgs. 38–41 

Stocks 

Pgs. 42–45 

Alternatives 

CONCLUSION 

Pgs. 46–49 

Focus on your process 

INVESTMENT PRODUCTS:    •   NOT FDIC INSURED   •   NO BANK GUARANTEE   •   MAY LOSE VALUE  

The views expressed herein are based on current conditions, subject to change and may differ from other JPMorgan Chase 
& Co. affiliates and employees. The views and strategies may not be appropriate for all investors. Investors should speak to 
their financial representatives before engaging in any investment product or strategy. This material should not be regarded 
as research or as a J.P. Morgan Research Report. Outlooks and past performance are not reliable indicators of future results. 
Please read additional regulatory status, disclosures, disclaimers, risks and other important information at the end of 
this material. 

4 

  

INTRODUCTION 

Out of  
the depths  

Most things that could have gone wrong for 
investors did in 2022. Markets that entered the 
year with extended valuations buckled in the 
face of elevated inflation, an aggressive global 
rate hiking cycle, war in Ukraine and economic 
challenges in China. 

Unusually, both stocks and bonds suffered big 
losses in 2022—one of the worst years ever for a 
balanced portfolio. 

5 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

INTRODUCTION 

As we move into 2023, investors still have 
many difficult questions to consider. 

How much further 
could interest rates rise? 

When will inflation  
come back to earth?  

Is a recession inevitable,  
and how bad could it get?  

6 

 

 
 

 

INTRODUCTION 

In this year’s outlook, we evaluate the fallout from a historic 
global tightening cycle—higher interest rates will rein in 
inflation, but recessions are likely in the United States and 
Europe—and we assess the degree to which market pricing 
already reflects a future downturn. 

Even as economic growth deteriorates, we think markets 
could stabilize in 2023. 

Higher bond yields offer total return potential, and they 
could provide portfolios with valuable ballast during a 
downturn. Equity markets may remain challenged by 
weaker earnings growth, but stock prices now incorporate 
a substantial degree of future damage.  

Precisely because markets are so battered, lower equity 
valuations and higher bond yields, in our view, mean that 
investors now enjoy the most attractive entry point for 
a traditional portfolio in over a decade. Already, market 
dislocations have appeared that investors can take 
advantage of. Those with capital to invest can find the 
potential for compelling returns across asset classes and 
risk levels.  

As you design and revise your goals-based plan, that’s 
welcome news indeed. 

7 

 
 

  
  
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

The 
consequences 
of global 
tightening 

Policy rate hikes are having  
their intended impacts.  

8 

9 

WEAKER GROWTH 

 
 

 
 
 

In 2022, central banks 
around the world launched 
an aggressive global 
rate hiking cycle to tame 
elevated inflation. 
WEAKER GROWTH 

As of late 2022, 26 of the 31 central 
banks that we track were raising 
rates, up from just two at the start 
of 2021. The Federal Reserve (Fed) 
engaged in its most aggressive round 
of interest rate hikes in 40 years. 

The European Central Bank (ECB) has been no less forceful, 
recently raising its policy rate by 0.75% to levels last seen 
before the global financial crisis (GFC). And the ECB seems 
set to keep raising rates despite the clear threats to growth. 

After a little over a decade of low or negative policy rates, 
the campaign against inflation caused a historic rout in bond 
markets. The Barclays Global Aggregate Index is on track to 
lose over 10% in 2022, its worst year on record. Negative 
yielding debt (a pervasive feature of the post-GFC landscape) 
has disappeared everywhere except Japan. 

CENTRAL BANKS RAISING INTEREST RATES 

Source: FactSet. Data as of November 2022. 
10 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Across the global economy, 
many households and companies 
are facing suddenly higher 
borrowing costs. 

11 

In the United States, rates for new 30-year mortgages 
breached 7%, up from ~3.25% at the start of 2022, and 
housing affordability has fallen to its lowest level since 2007. 
The economic hit is even more notable in Australia, New 
Zealand, the United Kingdom and Canada, where 10%–20% 
of households will face higher payments on existing 
mortgages starting next year. 

Inflation remains well above central bank targets, but we 
note a subtle shift in monetary policy. Central banks in 
Australia, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Canada have 
all moved to a slower pace of tightening. The Fed will likely 
follow suit to assess the effects of its tightening cycle—higher 
rates impact the economy with a lag. 

The rate hiking campaigns will likely come to an end in 2023, 
but the historic pace of hikes has already posed serious risks 
to global economic growth.   

In the United States, 
rates for new 30-year 
mortgages breached 7%. 
GLOBALLY COORDINATED TIGHTENING

% of central banks whose last move was a hike

Source: FactSet. Data as of October 31, 2022. Includes 31 central banks.

Months

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 4, 2022

THE MOST AGGRESSIVE FED HIKING CYCLE IN FOUR DECADES

Change in fed funds rate since hiking began, %ppts 

 

 

WEAKER GROWTH 

GLOBALLY COORDINATED TIGHTENING 

% of central banks whose last move was a hike 

100% 

0% 

20% 

40% 

60% 

80% 

’06 
’08 
’10 
’12 
’14 
’16 
’18 
’20 
’22 

Source: FactSet. Data as of November 2022. Includes 31 central banks. 

THE MOST AGGRESSIVE FED HIKING CYCLE IN FOUR DECADES 

Change in fed funds rate since hiking began, ppts 

5% 

0% 

1% 

2% 

3% 

4% 

1987–89 

1994–95 

1999–00 

2004–06 

2015–18 

2022 

0 
4 
8 
12
16
20
24
28
32
36 

MONTHS 

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 2022 

12 
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of October 2022.

INTEREST RATES ABOVE EXPECTED INFLATION

%

 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Higher rates will 
likely rein in growth 

In many economies, 
monetary policy is now 
restricting growth. 

In the United States, most members of the Fed’s Federal 
Open Market Committee think a “neutral” policy rate 
that neither restrains nor stimulates economic growth is 
around 2.5%. That’s well below the current policy rate. 
Several Fed governors have argued for a pause in rate 
hikes in the first quarter of 2023, concerned they could 
go too far in their efforts to control inflation. 

INTEREST RATES ABOVE EXPECTED INFLATION  

% 

6% 

5% 

4% 

3% 

2% 

1% 

0% 

­1% 

2­year Treasury yield 
2­year implied inﬂation 

’17 
’18 
’19 
’20 
’21 
’22 

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 2022. 

13 
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of October 2022. 

TREASURY YIELD CURVE IS DEEPLY INVERTED

Spread between 2­ and 10­year Treasury yield, bps

 

 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Markets seem to agree that interest rates are restrictive. 
Most yield curves are deeply inverted, and Treasury rates at 
most tenors are trading above the expected rate of inflation 
over the same period. 

Higher interest rates are meant to slow the economy in part 
by discouraging companies and households from borrowing. 
So far, they are doing just that. 

Activity in interest rate–sensitive sectors such as real estate 
has already declined dramatically. Instead of moving or 
refinancing mortgages to build new additions, homeowners 
are sitting tight. Capital markets are likewise dormant as 
companies balk at higher financing costs. Globally, issuance 
of corporate debt is down ~80%, and initial public offerings 
are USD600 billion lower than they were in 2021. 

Because most financial transactions and trade are 
denominated in dollars, a strong USD (itself a function 
of Fed rate hikes and the war in Ukraine) adds another 
source of resistance for global economic activity. In 
addition, increased volatility in capital markets could 
reduce corporate confidence and dampen investment 
and hiring plans. 

Given the lagged effects of higher rates, we expect 
weakness from housing, capital markets and technology 
to spread in 2023.   

TREASURY YIELD CURVE IS DEEPLY INVERTED 

Spread between 2-year and 10-year Treasury yields, basis points 

’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’

­

350 

300 

250 

200 

150 

100 

50 

0 

­50 

-100

’96
’98
’00
’02
’04
’06
’08
’12
’16
’20
’18
’14
’10
’22

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 2022. 

14 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Labor  
markets will 
likely soften 

While the unemployment 
rate is low and jobs growth 
is still healthy in the United 
States, demand for labor 
may be past its peak. 

Both the job openings rate and the quits rate have declined, 
albeit to elevated levels. Average hourly earnings seem to 
have hit their high-water mark and are now rising at a ~4.5% 
pace. Corporate earnings reports also suggest moderating 
labor demand and cost pressure. 

These data points signal that the Fed is getting its desired 
effect of lower demand for workers. But success is far from 
assured, and turning points in the labor market are difficult 
to identify in real time. 

As demand erodes and corporate profit margins deteriorate, 
more companies will likely freeze hiring or lay off workers to 
cut costs. Many companies that were darlings of the social-
distancing era (e.g., Amazon, Peloton and Meta) have done 
so already. 

We expect the unemployment rate to rise in 2023 as higher 
rates broadly slow the economy. 

15 
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Haver Analytics. Data as of September 2022. 

LABOR PRESSURES ARE COOLING

Quits rate, %
Job openings rate, %

Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Haver Analytics. Data as of October 2022. 

UNEMPLOYMENT RATE NEAR RECORD LOWS 

U.S. unemployment rate, %

  

WEAKER GROWTH 

DEMAND FOR LABOR PAST THE PEAK  

Quits rate, % 
Job openings rate, % 

’01 
’04 
’07 
’10 
’13 
’16 
’19 
’22 

3.5% 

1.0% 

1.5% 

2.0% 

2.5% 

3.0% 

7.5% 

1.5% 

2.5% 

3.5% 

4.5% 

5.5% 

6.5% 
Quits 

Job openings 

Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Haver Analytics. Data as of September 2022. 

UNEMPLOYMENT RATE NEAR RECORD LOWS 

U.S. unemployment rate, % 

11% 

9% 

7% 

5% 

3% 

Recession 

’80 
’86 
’92 
’98 
’04 
’10 
’16 
’22  

Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Haver Analytics. Data as of October 2022. 

16 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 
A bumpy path  
back to trend  
inflation 

We see evidence that inflation 
is on track to fall, but how 
far and how fast? The data 
has improved on several 
fronts: global supply chains, 
commodities and goods prices. 

Supply chain pressures—the result of excess demand for 
goods during the pandemic—have largely eased. Delivery 
times as measured by Purchasing Manager Index (PMI) 
surveys have fallen to average levels. Shipping costs have 
collapsed by around 70% from their peaks. 

In the commodities sector, the picture is mixed across 
economies, but prices generally look to be heading lower. 
Global industrial commodities prices are down more than 
35% from their highs and are negative on a year-over-year 
basis. Prices for oil and natural gas likewise seem past their 
peaks, though geopolitical factors play a key role here. 
War in Ukraine leaves Europe grappling with a precarious 
energy supply. 

70% 

Shipping costs 
have collapsed by 
around 70% from 
their peaks. 

35% 

Global industrial 
commodities prices 
are down more 
than 35% from 
their highs. 

17 

18 

 
 

 

 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Meanwhile, the United States is the top global producer 
of energy. In addition, the strong U.S. dollar helps to 
temper price increases for imported goods. 

Still, services inflation remains stubbornly high, a reflection 
of tight labor markets. The U.S. official rent and owners' 
equivalent rent inflation, which accounts for roughly one-
third of overall U.S. inflation measures, will probably stay 
elevated (though private measures suggest that rent 
increases are decelerating rapidly). Given the signals from 
private measures, we are looking for softer rental inflation 
readings by the middle of next year.  

Globally, we think inflation will continue its downward 
trajectory throughout 2023, reaching levels consistent 
with most central bank targets by 2024. 

Weaker growth, softer labor 
markets and falling inflation 
will likely lead to the end of 
the global rate hiking cycle 
in 2023. Investors may at 
first glance welcome the 
news. But historical evidence 
suggests that the real 
economy suffers the greatest 
damage after interest rates 
have already risen. 
Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis. Data as of August 2022. 

GOODS PRICE INFLATION FALLING WHILE SERVICES REMAIN STICKY

U.S. PCE, 6­month % change annualized

Source: NYFEDLSE, Haver Analytics. Data as of September 2022. 

THE GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN IS RAPIDLY CLEARING 

Global Supply Chain Pressure Index, 0 = normal

 

WEAKER GROWTH 

GOODS PRICE INFLATION IS FALLING    

WHILE SERVICES PRICE INFLATION REMAINS STICKY  

U.S. PCE, 6-month % change annualized 

15% 

10% 

5% 

0% 

­5% 

­10% 

Services 

Goods 

’12 
’14 
’16 
’18 
’20 
’22 

Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis. Data as of September 2022. 

THE GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN IS RAPIDLY CLEARING 

Global Supply Chain Pressure Index, 0 = normal 

5 

­1 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

’12 
’14 
’16 
’18 
’20 
’22 

Sources: New York Fed, Haver Analytics. Data as of September 2022. 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Weakness  
across the global  
economy  

There’s virtually no place to hide: 
Across regions and sectors, the 
global economy faces an array of 
challenges to growth. 

20 

 
 

 
 
 
 
    

 
 

 

WEAKER GROWTH 

The economic challenges that 
dominated 2022—elevated 
inflation, tightening financial 
conditions, energy disruptions, 
weakening growth in China— 
won’t vanish overnight. 

We expect friction in 
the global economy 
to continue to build. 

A monetary policy–induced recession 
in the United States seems more 
likely than not in 2023, while Europe 
appears likely to face a more difficult 
environment characterized by stagnant 
growth and elevated inflation. China’s 
path will be determined by policymakers’ 
commitment to zero COVID, while Latin 
America may be a relative bright spot. 

21 
Source: J.P. Morgan, S&P Global, Haver Analytics. Data as of October 2022. 

GLOBAL ACTIVITY SURVEYS SIGNAL SLIGHT CONTRACTION

Global PMIs, 50+ = expansion

WEAKER GROWTH 

GLOBAL ACTIVITY SURVEYS SIGNAL SLIGHT CONTRACTION 

Global PMIs, 50+ = expansion 

65 

60 

55 

50 

45 

40 

Recession 

’00 
’02 
’04 
’06 
’08 
’10 
’12 
’14 
’16 
’18 
’20 
’22 

Sources: J.P. Morgan, S&P Global, Haver Analytics. Data as of October 2022. 

22 
 

 
  

 

WEAKER GROWTH 

United States: 
Recession more  
likely than not  

While growth in the United States has been relatively 
resilient, we think it is only a matter of time before 
debt defaults pick up and workers lose their jobs. 

Typically, tightening cycles first impact interest 
rate–sensitive sectors. Later, they lead to job 
losses across the economy—sometimes even 
12–18 months after rates reach restrictive levels. 
We expect to see more job cuts in the technology, 
residential real estate and manufacturing sectors. 

23 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

INTEREST RATE–SENSITIVE HOUSING GETTING HIT 

Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate (SAAR), thousands of units 

’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’

8,000 

7,000 

6,000 

5,000 

4,000 

3,000 

2,000 

New 1­family home sales 

Total existing home sales 

Recession 

’00
’04
’02
’08
’06
’12
’10
’16
’14
’20
’18
’22

Sources: National Association of Realtors, Census Bureau. Data as of October 2022. 

24 

 
  

 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Importantly though, 
we don’t expect 
a downturn 
anything like the 
Great Recession. 

Financial, corporate and household 
sectors are well capitalized today, 
which they decidedly were not 
during the financial crisis. 

For example, the banking system has a loan-to-deposit ratio 
of ~70% versus 100% prior to the financial crisis. Corporates 
and households are currently running a more robust surplus 
(total income less total spending) than they have been prior 
to any recession since 1950. 

In short, a U.S. recession is likely on its way, but we don’t 
think it will be a crisis. 
Corporates and 
households are currently
running a more robust 
surplus than they 
have been prior to any 
recession since 1950. 

 

25 

WEAKER GROWTH 

China:  
Ongoing property  
and COVID woes 

In China, the fallout from the 
collapsing property sector and the 
government’s commitment to zero 
COVID policies could continue to 
rein in GDP growth. 

Exports are running above pre-COVID rates, but 
building sales and new construction growth are 
plummeting and as of yet show no signs of a 
turn. Recent policy announcements signal more 
government support, but we will be looking for 
confirmation from the data. 

Chinese policymakers are directing investment 
to infrastructure development. Yet the modest 
growth impulse has been thwarted by the stop-
start cycle of COVID lockdowns as well as the 
troubled property sector. Through 2023, we may 
see a slow pivot toward reopening, but it will likely 
be staggered and careful.   

For now, at least, we expect a government focus 
on economic stability, not stimulus. We see no 
quick rebound in Chinese growth. 

Reopening will likely be 
staggered and careful. 

Government will likely 
focus on economic 
stability, not stimulus. 

26 

27 

 
 
  

 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Europe: 
On the brink 
of a downturn 

By any measure, Europe’s 
economic situation looks bleak, 
even though growth has held 
up better than many would 
have expected.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

The war in Ukraine simultaneously 
pushes up inflation, reduces real 
incomes, weakens external finances 
and challenges the credibility of the 
ECB’s 2% inflation target. 

Additional rate hikes to battle inflation will 
inevitably depress growth, and bond markets 
do not seem likely to endorse large-scale fiscal 
support programs. 

Many supply chains have been disrupted, and 
business and household confidence has rarely 
been weaker. The end of the war would bolster 
the economy, and would certainly improve business 
and consumer sentiment, but we are unable to 
include such a scenario in our base case for 2023. 

28 

 
 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Indeed, reliance 
on Russian energy 
poses a critical risk 
to economic output. 

90% 

Even though European policymakers have 
ramped up natural gas storage levels to ~90% 
of total capacity, futures prices still suggest 
a precarious situation through next year 
and beyond. Winter weather, which has so 
far been mild, will likely determine whether 
the industrial sector will need to curtail 
production to ensure that households have 
heat and electricity. 

29 
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Gas Infrastructure Europe. Data as of November 4, 2022.

EUROPEAN NATURAL GAS STORAGE IS NEAR FULL

Natural gas storage, % full

Source: sentix GmbH, Haver Analytics. Data as of November 2022.

BUT ECONOMIC SENTIMENT IS TERRIBLE 

Sentix Euro Area Economic Expectations/Sentiment Index, % balance

 

WEAKER GROWTH 

EUROPEAN NATURAL GAS STORAGE IS NEARLY FULL... 

Natural gas storage, % full 

20% 

30% 

40% 

50% 

60% 

70% 

80% 

90% 

100% 

Sep ’21 
Jan ’22 
May ’22 
Oct ’22 

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Gas Infrastructure Europe. Data as of November 2022. 

...BUT ECONOMIC SENTIMENT IS TERRIBLE 

Sentix Euro Area Economic Expectations/Sentiment Index, % balance 

­50% 

­30% 

­10% 

10% 

30% 

50% 

’05 
’06 
’07 
’08 
’09 
’10 
’11 
’12 
’13 
’14 
’15 
’16 
’17 
’18 
’19 
’20 
’21 
’22  

Sources: sentix GmbH, Haver Analytics. Data as of November 2022. 

30 

 
  

 
 

 

 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

Latin America:  
A (relative) 
bright spot  

For nearly two years, Latin 
America has outperformed 
other emerging and developed 
markets both in terms of growth 
and market performance. 

Despite the aggressive Fed tightening cycle, major 
currencies in the region strengthened in 2022. 
The Brazilian real and Mexican peso rose 9% 
and 5.5%, respectively. 

Latin American central banks were among the first to 
start hiking rates in 2021. By the end of 2022, most were 
able to pause, and it’s possible they could start lowering 
rates by the middle of 2023. This would provide an 
important tailwind for Latin America’s equity markets, 
which are trading at some of their lowest valuations over 
the last 15 years. 

31 

OPTIONAL EYEBROW TITLE

 

 
 

WEAKER GROWTH 

If monetary policy does ease, we 
don’t think exchange rates will suffer. 
That’s because real rates (especially 
in Brazil) are among the highest in 
the world. 

Latin America will not escape the effects of a weakening 
global economy. But it should be relatively sheltered by 
its significant exposure to the commodities sector. 

Politics pose the main risk to Latin America’s economies. 
If public spending gets out of hand, fiscal stability could 
be called into question. 

32 

  
  
 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Valuation resets  

It’s a good time to  
put capital to work.  

33 
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Note: The left bars represent 2022, and right bars 2023 estimates.

2023 LTCMAS PRESENT IMPRESSIVE EXPECTED RETURNS

Annualized expected return, %

  

 
 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Here’s what the  
bear  market of   
2022 has
 
 delivered:  

As noted, a dramatic reset 
in valuations—higher yields, 
lower stock multiples—has, 
in our view, created the most 
attractive entry point for a 
traditional portfolio of stocks 
and bonds in over a decade. 
In fact, our long-term outlook 
for returns across asset classes 
are materially higher than they 
were just last year. 

LONG-TERM CAPITAL MARKET ASSUMPTIONS 

PRESENT FAVORABLE EXPECTED RETURNS 

Forecasted annual return over the next 10-15 years, % 

2022 LTCMAs 
Equities  
Fixed Income 

9.8 
10.1 
2023 LTCMAs 
7.9 
6.9 
6.8
6.5 

4.6 
4.1 
3.7  
3.9 
2.6 
2.1 

U.S. Large Cap 
EAFE Equity 
EM Equity 
Muni Bonds 
U.S. Agg Bonds U.S. HY Bonds 

Alternatives 
9.9 
8.1 
5.8 5.7 
5.0 
3.6 

Diversiﬁed 
Private 
U.S. Core 
Hedge Funds 
Equity 
Real Estate 

Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Data as of September 30, 2022. 

34 
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 4, 2022.

U.S. EQUITY VALUATIONS COMPRESSED BELOW LONG­TERM AVERAGE

S&P 500 NTM P/E ratio

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 4, 2022. Note: Investment grade bonds proxied by the JULIY Index.

BOND YIELDS AT THEIR HIGHEST LEVELS IN A DECADE

Yield, %

 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 
 

 

STRONGER MARKETS 

For 2023, we think investors can focus on two central 
questions: 

What assets might help protect my portfolio through 
a recession?  
Our answer: Core bonds. 

How much future damage to cash flows and corporate 
earnings do risk assets already reflect? 
Our answer: Substantial risk—but likely not all. 

We think investors can now find opportunity in core 
bonds, preferred equities, small- and mid-cap stocks, 
and infrastructure and transportation assets. 

Through 2023, as markets shift to reflect the economic 
weakness we expect, more opportunities in sectors such as 
real estate and large-cap equities will likely appear. 

In the following sections, we assess risks and opportunities 
across asset classes. 

U.S. EQUITY VALUATIONS NEAR LONG-TERM AVERAGE 

S&P 500 NTM P/E ratio 

24x 

22x 

20x 

18x 

16x 

14x 

12x 

10x 

+/­ 1 SD
Average 

’02 
’06 
’10 
’14 
’18 
’22  

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 2022. Note: It is not possible to invest directly in an index. 

BOND YIELDS AT THEIR HIGHEST LEVELS IN A DECADE 

Yield, % 

10% 

8% 

6% 

4% 

2% 

0% 

­2% 

U.S. investment grade bonds 

10­year Treasury 

10­year Treasury less expected inﬂation 

’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 
’10 
’11 
’12 
’13 
’14 
’15 
’16 
’17 
’18 
’19 
’20 
’21 
’22 

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 2022. Note: Investment grade bonds proxied by the JULIY Index. It is not 
possible to invest directly in an index. 

35 

 

 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Bonds:  

Potential for yield, 
protection and capital  
appreciation  

36 
YIELDS ACROSS THE FIXED INCOME LANDSCAPE ARE COMPELLING

Yield, %

Source: J.P. Morgan Private Bank, Bloomberg Finance L.P. TEY = Tax­Equivalent Yield. Note: Investment Grade represented by J.P. Morgan JULI, 
Munis by the Bloomberg Muni Bond Index, Preferreds by ICE BofA US High Yield Inst. Capital Securities Index, and Broad HY by J.P. Morgan 
Domestic HY Index. Data as of October 31, 2022

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., BoA. Data as of October 26, 2022. Note: Preferreds proxied by the HIPS Index.

PREFERRED EQUITY YIELDS IMPLY COMPELLING FORWARD RETURNS, %

 

 

 

 
 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Only a few quarters ago, traditional fixed income faced 
a serious challenge: It provided neither compelling levels 
of income nor adequate protection against an economic 
downturn. Today, with Treasury, corporate and municipal 
bond yields at their highest levels in a decade, both 
income and portfolio ballast are once again on offer. 

That’s a change that all investors should pay 
attention to. 

Current yields in many parts of the fixed income complex 
are now equivalent to historical equity returns. This 
could give investors an opportunity to reach their goals 
while taking less risk. As interest rates fall in a recession, 
longer-duration core fixed income (e.g., investment-grade 
corporates or municipal bonds) could provide potential 
total returns well into the teens. 

YIELDS ACROSS THE FIXED INCOME LANDSCAPE 

Yield, % 

9.1% 
8.5% 
8.4% 

4.7% 
3.9% 
3.7% 

6.3% 

1.9% 
2.8% 

0.0% 
0.5% 

1.5% 

4.0% 
3.8% 
4.2% 

5.6% 

0% 

2% 

4% 

6% 

8% 

10% 

November 21, 2022 

December 31, 2021 

10Y UST 
Euro IG 
3M US 
US IG 
US Munis 
US 
Euro HY 
US HY 
T­Bill 
(TEY) 
Preferreds 

PREFERRED EQUITY YIELDS 

Yield, % 

8% 

6% 

4% 

2% 

0% 

Risk­free yield 

Credit spread 

’13 
’14 
’15 
’16 
’17 
’18 
’19 
’20 
’21 
’22  

Sources: Top chart: J.P. Morgan Private Bank, Bloomberg Finance L.P. TEY = Tax-Equivalent Yield. Note: Investment Grade represented by J.P. Morgan  
JULI, Munis by the Bloomberg Muni Bond Index, Preferreds by ICE BofA US High Yield Inst. Capital Securities Index, and Broad HY by J.P. Morgan  
Domestic HY Index. Data as of November 2022  

Source: Bottom chart: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 2022. Note: Investment grade bonds proxied by the JULIY Index. Risk-free yield  
proxied by the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield.  
37 
 

 

STRONGER MARKETS 

In fact, market pricing suggests that 
short-term interest rates will remain 
above 3.1% for the better part of the 
next decade. We believe that outcome 
is unlikely, and think investors should 
lock in elevated yields now. 

Moving beyond core fixed income, potential returns and risks are 
greater when we consider less creditworthy issuers or securities 
that are subordinate in the capital structure. 

As we assess the asset class, the high yield bond market is pricing 
in a deceleration in economic growth and deterioration in credit 
quality, but not yet an outright recession. Even so, its all-in yield of 
nearly 10% offers an attractive alternative to equity exposure even 
after accounting for potential losses from default. 

Meanwhile, preferred equities could be interesting for some 
investors. They display characteristics of both fixed income (prices 
are determined in part by interest rates) and equities (they react to 
changing perceptions about corporate earnings). Both rising rates 
and concerns about economic growth sparked a ~20% drawdown 
in these securities so far this year. 

We like the entry point for preferred equities. Unlike high yield 
bonds, default risk is more limited, given that investment grade 
companies are the most common issuers. What’s more, prices 
could rebound if yields decline. U.S. taxpayers also benefit from 
the qualified dividend income tax treatment of the coupons. 

38 

 

 
 
  

STRONGER MARKETS 

Stocks:  

Focused on  
quality, looking for 
entry points  

39 
 

STRONGER MARKETS 

No one knows precisely when stock markets will bottom. 
But a ~20% decline in stocks is relatively rare and has 
historically presented the best entry points for investors 
with medium- to long-term time horizons. This cycle 
should be no different. 

In 2023, we believe equities are well positioned 
to deliver positive returns. Any material decline 
from current levels could represent a good buying 
opportunity. 

Turning first to the U.S. market, analysts do seem a 
little too optimistic in projecting earnings growth of 
nearly 7.5% for the S&P 500 in 2023. We are penciling in 
flat-to-negative earnings growth in light of a weakening 
economic backdrop. 

But earnings expectations are just one part of the 
equation. In the United States, as inflation subsides, the 
tightening cycle nears its end and rates hit their ceiling, 
we expect equity valuations to expand. 

Together those two factors should deliver modest positive 
returns for the S&P 500 next year. Clearly, taming inflation 
is a prerequisite for stock market gains. 

We could see some rotation in market sectors. Investors 
may move back into interest rate–sensitive sectors (such 
as real estate and reasonably priced technology) as bond 
yields peak, and exit cyclical sectors that could be at risk 
if markets price in greater risk of recession. 

The picture is mixed across regions. Although current 
valuations in Europe and China seem attractive, we think 
U.S. dollar–based investors should wait for a clearer 
turn lower in the dollar and a turn higher in the global 
manufacturing cycle before boosting their non-U.S. equity 
exposures. We may get the chance, as the U.S. dollar looks 
very stretched relative to historical valuations. 

We believe equities  
will deliver positive  
total returns in 2023. 

40 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Emerging markets outside of China could offer some 
interesting trading opportunities. Brazilian equities 
seem attractive on a valuation basis, and we like South 
Korea’s exposure to the semiconductor industry. Over the 
longer term, structural trends such as food scarcity and 
reliance on oil (despite progress toward the clean energy 
transition) will likely offset idiosyncratic risks in regions 
such as the Middle East and Latin America. 

As the cycle progresses, we may find an opportunity 
to add to most emerging markets in 2023.    

On a regional basis, we prefer U.S. stocks, which 
tend to be more insulated from global downturns. 

On a sector level, we prefer healthcare. Revenues aren’t 
as cyclical as they are in other sectors, and valuations 
seem reasonable. We also see opportunity in quality, cash 
flow–generating tech and tech-related companies that 
were hit by higher interest rates. Industrial companies 
provide some inflation protection and benefit from the 
tailwind of global infrastructure and defense investment. 
Dividend growth and value companies could be well 
positioned, given the uncertain macro environment and 
higher interest rates. 

A trend that we think will continue into 2023: Under-
performance of the mega-cap tech leaders of the last 
cycle relative to the broad market. 

We also think investors 
should now consider small- 
and mid-cap companies. 

Generally, smaller companies tend to grow faster than large 
caps, benefit from merger and acquisition activity, and could 
be somewhat insulated from a more stringent regulatory 
environment. 

Valuations have fallen to recessionary levels and may 
already reflect a material decline in earnings. During 
recessions, small- and mid-cap companies only underperform 
large-cap stocks by ~5%, and they outperform large-cap 
stocks by 30% in the first year of the recovery. We think 
the time to add is now. 

As the year progresses, we will be on the lookout for other 
dislocated pockets of the market. 

41 
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 4, 2022

MID­CAP EQUITY VALUATIONS TRADING NEAR TROUGH LEVELS

S&P 400 NTM P/E ratio

Source: FactSet, J.P. Morgan Private Bank. Data as of October 31, 2022.

CONSENSUS SEEMS TOO OPTIMISTIC ON EARNINGS GROWTH

2023 expected YoY change in EPS

STRONGER MARKETS 

MID-CAP EQUITY VALUATIONS TRADING NEAR TROUGH LEVELS 

S&P 400 NTM P/E ratio 

10x 

12x 

14x 

16x 

18x 

20x 

22x 

24x 
+/­ 1 SD
Average 

’95 
’98 
’01 
’04 
’07 
’10 
’13 
’16 
’19 
’22 

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. Data as of November 2022. Note: It is not possible to invest directly in an index. 

CONSENSUS SEEMS TOO OPTIMISTIC ON EARNINGS GROWTH 

2023 expected year-over-year change in earnings per share (EPS) 

Consensus expectations 

6% 

2% 

­2% 

­6% 

­10% 

5% 
J.P. Morgan Private Bank outlook 

­3% 

­8% 

United States 
Europe  

2%

Sources: FactSet, J.P. Morgan Private Bank. Data as of October 2022. Note: It is not possible to invest directly in an index. 

42 

 

  
  

 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Alternatives:  

Potential for excess 
returns, benefit 
from long-term 
economic shifts 

43 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Once-booming private 
markets have started to 
feel the strain that is all but 
inescapable in public markets. 

Growth equity funds, real estate vehicles and private 
credit managers have all experienced varying degrees 
of markdowns on their assets, and more seem likely. 

On the other hand, other alternative investments such 
as hedge funds that focus on rates, currencies and 
cross-asset correlations had a banner year and proved 
their worth as portfolio diversifiers. In 2023, gold may 
serve a similar purpose as the dollar and real interest 
rates find their peaks.  

More immediately, the drought of public capital market 
activity in 2022 means that private market investors 
can earn a premium for providing both debt and equity 
financing. Companies that were planning on an initial 
public offering in 2022 or 2023 are holding back, given 
the valuation reset. Instead, many of these firms are 
turning to private investors for bridge capital, and private 
lenders can now demand higher interest rates from 
potential borrowers. 

Similarly, secondary private equity offerings, which 
have historically demonstrated higher net IRRs (internal 
rates of return) with more limited manager dispersion than 
other types of private equity investments, could provide 
an opportunity to acquire discounted assets from owners 
who are willing to accept a markdown in exchange for 
immediate liquidity. 

Supply in this area has increased because some 
institutional investors need to sell illiquid assets to 
maintain their proper allocations, given the sell-off 
in both stocks and bonds this year. 

44 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Going forward, 
we may also 
see distressed 
opportunities 
in real estate 
and credit as the 
growth backdrop 
deteriorates. 

As we move into 2023 and beyond, we think there 
will be a renewed focus on stability and security 
across the global economy. The pandemic and 
shifting geopolitical risks have raised acute issues 
in areas such as supply chain resilience, access 
to energy, food and other natural resources, and 
traditional and digital security. 

Real assets such as infrastructure, transportation 
and the energy transition create a wide range of 
possibilities for both public and private investors. 

Many sectors, such as residential real estate 
(U.S. housing stock has been underbuilt by ~1.5 
million homes), shipping (there are only 111 
active large shipyards today versus 320 in 2008), 
and natural resources (large-cap energy capex 
is down 60% since 2015) have seen a decade 
of underinvestment that curtails capacity. The 
investment shortfall presents opportunity for  
both yield and total return, though cyclical risks 
should be taken into account. 

45 

 
 

 

STRONGER MARKETS 

Europe will likely need to redesign its energy 
infrastructure and supply chain, which should 
benefit not only natural gas producers and 
transporters, but also accelerate the green 
energy transition. Nuclear energy may even 
start to become a more acceptable option. 

Across the global economy, 
critical infrastructure will 
continue to provide investors 
with steady income streams 
under a wide variety of 
macroeconomic conditions. 

All in all, we rely on private investments to add 
diversification benefits to portfolios, to target 
market inefficiencies in opportunistic areas, 
and to drive attractive returns relative to public 
benchmarks. Our outlook for 2023 makes those 
qualities even more valuable. 

Europe 

Will likely need to 
redesign its energy 
infrastructure and 
supply chain. 

Real Assets 

Many sectors within 
real assets have 
seen a decade of 
underinvestment. 

46 

 
 

CONCLUSION 

Focus  
on your  
process  

47 
 

CONCLUSION 

2022 tested the resolve of many investors.  
Equity markets experienced one of their worst  
drawdowns on record. Bonds not only failed to  
protect portfolios from the equity sell-off, but they  
suffered their steepest losses in decades.  

But better days lie ahead. We believe markets could  
stabilize even as the economy worsens in 2023. The  
global reset in valuations is presenting investors  
with a broader range of viable options to help  
achieve their goals.   

Most importantly, we encourage you to focus on  
your process: Define and revisit financial goals; then  
design investment portfolios with the potential to  
reach them.  

Speak with your J.P. Morgan team to see how you  
might turn that potential into your reality. 

48 
Our mission 

The Global Investment Strategy Group 
provides industry-leading insights and 
investment advice to help our clients 
achieve their long-term goals. They 
draw on the extensive knowledge and 
experience of the Group’s economists, 
investment strategists and asset-
class strategists to provide a unique 
perspective across the global financial 
markets. 

49 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONCLUSION 

EXECUTIVE SPONSOR 

Clay Erwin 
Global Head of Investments Sales & Trading 

GLOBAL INVESTMENT STRATEGY GROUP  

Tom Kennedy 
Chief Investment Strategist 

Elyse Ausenbaugh 
Global Investment Strategist 

Christopher Baggini 
Global Head of Equity Strategy 

Nur Cristiani 
Head of LatAm Investment Strategy 

Kristin Kallergis Rowland 
Global Head of Alternative Investments 

Jacob Manoukian 
Head of U.S. Investment Strategy 

Grace Peters 
Head of EMEA Investment Strategy 

Xavier Vegas 
Global Head of Credit Strategy 

Alex Wolf 
Head of Asia Investment Strategy 

50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

IMPORTANT INFORMATION 

Key Risks 
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. It is not possible 
to invest directly in an index. This material is for informational purposes 
only, and may inform you of certain products and services offered by private 
banking businesses of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPM”). Products and services 
described, as well as associated fees, charges and interest rates, are subject 
to change in accordance with the applicable account agreements and may 
differ among geographic locations. Investing in fixed income products 
is subject to certain risks, including interest rate, credit, inflation, call, 
prepayment and reinvestment risk. Not all products and services are offered 
at all locations. If you are a person with a disability and need additional 
support accessing this material, please contact your J.P. Morgan team or 
email us at accessibility.support@jpmorgan.com for assistance. Please read 
all Important Information. 

Alternative Investments 
Investment in alternative investment strategies is speculative, often involves a 
greater degree of risk than traditional investments including limited liquidity 
and limited transparency, among other factors and should only be considered 
by sophisticated investors with the financial capability to accept the loss of all 
or part of the assets devoted to such strategies. 

Bonds 
Bonds are subject to interest rate risk, credit and default risk of the issuer. 
Bond prices generally fall when interest rates rise. 

Commodities 
Investments in commodities may have greater volatility than investments 
in traditional securities. The value of commodities may be affected by 
changes in overall market movements, commodity index volatility, changes 
in interest rates, or factors affecting a particular industry or commodity, 
such as drought, floods, weather, livestock disease, embargoes, tariffs and 
international economic, political and regulatory developments. Investing in 
commodities creates an opportunity for increased return but, at the same 
time, creates the possibility for greater loss. 

Equities 
The price of equity securities may rise or fall due to the changes in the broad 
market or changes in a company's financial condition, sometimes rapidly or 
unpredictably. Equity securities are subject to "stock market risk" meaning 
that stock prices in general may decline over short or extended periods of 
time. Preferred investments share characteristics of both stocks and bonds. 
Preferred securities are typically long dated securities with call protection 
that fall in between debt and equity in the capital structure. Preferred 
securities carry various risks and considerations which include: concentration 
risk; interest rate risk; lower credit ratings than individual bonds; a lower 
claim to assets than a firm's individual bonds; higher yields due to these risk 
characteristics; and “callable” implications meaning the issuing company may 
redeem the stock at a certain price after a certain date. Small capitalization 
companies typically carry more risk than well-established "blue-chip" 
companies since smaller companies can carry a higher degree of market 
volatility than most large cap and/or blue-chip companies. Investment in 
alternative investment strategies is speculative, often involves a greater 
degree of risk than traditional investments including limited liquidity and 
limited transparency, among other factors and should only be considered by 
sophisticated investors with the financial capability to accept the loss of all or 
part of the assets devoted to such strategies. 

Fixed Income 
Investing in fixed income products is subject to certain risks, including interest 
rate, credit, inflation, call, prepayment, and reinvestment risk. 

Preferreds 
Preferred investments share characteristics of both stocks and bonds. 
Preferred securities are typically long dated securities with call protection 
that fall in between debt and equity in the capital structure. Preferred 
securities carry various risks and considerations which include: concentration 
risk; interest rate risk; lower credit ratings than individual bonds; a lower 
claim to assets than a firm's individual bonds; higher yields due to these risk 
characteristics; and “callable” implications meaning the issuing company may 
redeem the stock at a certain price after a certain date. 

UNDERSTANDING LTCMAS 
JPMAM Long-Term Capital Market Assumptions (LTCMAs): Given the complex 
risk-reward trade-offs involved, we advise clients to rely on judgment as 
well as quantitative optimization approaches in setting strategic allocations. 
Please note that all information shown is based on qualitative analysis. 

Exclusive reliance on the above is not advised. This information is not  
intended as a recommendation to invest in any particular asset class or  
strategy or as a promise of future performance. Note that these asset class  
and strategy assumptions are passive only – they do not consider the impact  
of active management. References to future returns are not promises or  
even estimates of actual returns a client portfolio may achieve. Assumptions,  
opinions and estimates are provided for illustrative purposes only. They  
should not be relied upon as recommendations to buy or sell securities.  
Forecasts of financial market trends that are based on current market  
conditions constitute our judgment and are subject to change without notice.  
We believe the information provided here is reliable, but do not warrant its  
accuracy or completeness. This material has been prepared for information  
purposes only and is not intended to provide, and should not be relied on for,  
accounting, legal or tax advice. The outputs of the assumptions are provided for  
illustration/discussion purposes only and are subject to significant limitations.  
“Expected” or “alpha” return estimates are subject to uncertainty and error.  
For example, changes in the historical data from which it is estimated will  
result in different implications for asset class returns. Expected returns for  
each asset class are conditional on an economic scenario; actual returns in  
the event the scenario comes to pass could be higher or lower, as they have  
been in the past, so an investor should not expect to achieve returns similar  
to the outputs shown herein. References to future returns for either asset  
allocation strategies or asset classes are not promises of actual returns a  
client portfolio may achieve. Because of the inherent limitations of all models,  
potential investors should not rely exclusively on the model when making a  
decision. The model cannot account for the impact that economic, market,  
and other factors may have on the implementation and ongoing management  
of an actual investment portfolio. Unlike actual portfolio outcomes, the model  
outcomes do not reflect actual trading, liquidity constraints, fees, expenses,  
taxes and other factors that could impact the future returns. The model  
assumptions are passive only – they do not consider the impact of active  
management. A manager’s ability to achieve similar outcomes is subject to  
risk factors over which the manager may have no or limited control. The  
views contained herein are not to be taken as advice or a recommendation  
to buy or sell any investment in any jurisdiction, nor is it a commitment from  
J.P. Morgan Asset Management or any of its subsidiaries to participate in any  
of the transactions mentioned herein. Any forecasts, figures, opinions or  
investment techniques and strategies set out are for information purposes  

51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
  

 
 

 
 
  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

only, based on certain assumptions and current market conditions and are 
subject to change without prior notice. All information presented herein is 
considered to be accurate at the time of production. This material does not 
contain sufficient information to support an investment decision and it should 
not be relied upon by you in evaluating the merits of investing in any securities 
or products. In addition, users should make an independent assessment of 
the legal, regulatory, tax, credit and accounting implications and determine, 
together with their own financial professional, if any investment mentioned 
herein is believed to be appropriate to their personal goals. Investors should 
ensure that they obtain all available relevant information before making any 
investment. It should be noted that investment involves risks, the value of 
investments and the income from them may fluctuate in accordance with 
market conditions and taxation agreements and investors may not get back 
the full amount invested. Both past performance and yield are not a reliable 
indicator of current and future results. 

General Risks & Considerations 
Any views, strategies or products discussed in this material may not be 
appropriate for all individuals and are subject to risks. Investors may get back 
less than they invested, and past performance is not a reliable indicator of 
future results. Asset allocation/diversification does not guarantee a profit or 
protect against loss. Nothing in this material should be relied upon in isolation 
for the purpose of making an investment decision. You are urged to consider 
carefully whether the services, products, asset classes (e.g., equities, fixed 
income, alternative investments, commodities, etc.) or strategies discussed 
are suitable to your needs. You must also consider the objectives, risks, 
charges, and expenses associated with an investment service, product or 
strategy prior to making an investment decision. For this and more complete 
information, including discussion of your goals/situation, contact your J.P. 
Morgan team. 

Index Definitions 
The Bloomberg Global Aggregate Index provides a broad-based measure 
of the global investment grade fixed-rate debt markets. The Global 
Aggregate Index contains three major components: the U.S. Aggregate 
(USD 300mm), the Pan-European Aggregate (EUR 300mm), and the Asian-
Pacific Aggregate Index (JPY 35bn). In addition to securities from these 
three benchmarks (94.1% of the overall Global Aggregate market value 
as of December 31, 2009), the Global Aggregate Index includes Global 
Treasury, Eurodollar (USD 300mm), Euro-Yen (JPY 25bn), Canadian (USD 
300mm equivalent), and Investment Grade 144A (USD 300mm) index-
eligible securities not already in the three regional aggregate indices. 
The Global Aggregate Index family includes a wide range of standard and 
customized subindices by liquidity constraint, sector, quality and maturity. 
A component of the Multiverse Index, the Global Aggregate Index was 
created in 1999, with index history backfilled to January 1, 1990. All indices 
are denominated in U.S. dollars. 

The MSCI World Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization-
weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance 
of developed markets. The index consists of 23 developed market country 
indexes. 

The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index is a capitalization-weighted index of 
500 stocks. The index is designed to measure performance of the broad 
domestic economy through changes in the aggregate market value of 500 
stocks representing all major industries. The index was developed with a base 
level of 10 for the 1941–43 base period. 

The Standard & Poor’s 400 Index provides investors with a benchmark for 
mid-sized companies. The index, which is distinct from the large-cap S&P 
500, is designed to measure the performance of 400 mid-sized companies, 
reflecting the distinctive risk and return characteristics of this market 
segment. 

The STOXX Europe 600 Index (SXXP Index) is an index tracking 600 publicly 
traded companies based in one of 18 EU countries. The index includes small 
cap, medium-cap and large-cap companies. The countries represented in 
the index are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, 
Holland, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. 

The MSCI Emerging Markets Index captures large- and mid-cap 
representation across 23 emerging Markets (EM) countries. With 834 
constituents, the index covers approximately 85% of the free float-adjusted 
market capitalization in each country. EM countries include: Brazil, Chile, 
China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, 
Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russia, Qatar, South 
Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey and United Arab Emirates. 

The MSCI China Index captures large- and mid-cap representation across 
China H shares, B shares, Red chips and P chips. With 144 constituents, 
the index covers about 85% of this China equity universe. 

The CSI 300 is a capitalization-weighted stock market index designed to 
replicate the performance of the top 300 stocks traded on the Shanghai 
Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. 

The CSI China Overseas Internet Index is designed to measure the 
performance of the investable universe of publicly traded China-based 
companies whose primary business or businesses are in the internet 
and internet-related sectors. 

Indices are not investment products and may not be considered for 
investment. 

Non-Reliance 
Certain information contained in this material is believed to be reliable; 
however, JPM does not represent or warrant its accuracy, reliability or 
completeness, or accept any liability for any loss or damage (whether direct 
or indirect) arising out of the use of all or any part of this material. No 
representation or warranty should be made with regard to any computations, 
graphs, tables, diagrams or commentary in this material, which are provided 
for illustration/reference purposes only. The views, opinions, estimates and 
strategies expressed in this material constitute our judgment based on 
current market conditions and are subject to change without notice. JPM 
assumes no duty to update any information in this material in the event 
that such information changes. Views, opinions, estimates and strategies 
expressed herein may differ from those expressed by other areas of JPM, 
views expressed for other purposes or in other contexts, and this material 
should not be regarded as a research report. Any projected results and 
risks are based solely on hypothetical examples cited, and actual results 
and risks will vary depending on specific circumstances. Forward-looking 
statements should not be considered as guarantees or predictions of future 
events. 

52 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
  
 
 
 

  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Nothing in this document shall be construed as giving rise to any duty  
of care owed to, or advisory relationship with, you or any third party.  
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as an offer, solicitation,  
recommendation or advice (whether financial, accounting, legal, tax or  
other) given by J.P. Morgan and/or its officers or employees, irrespective  
of whether or not such communication was given at your request.   
J.P. Morgan and its affiliates and employees do not provide tax, legal or  
accounting advice. You should consult your own tax, legal and accounting  
advisors before engaging in any financial transactions. 

IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS AND POTENTIAL 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 

Conflicts of interest will arise whenever JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or  
any of its affiliates (together, “J.P. Morgan”) have an actual or perceived  
economic or other incentive in its management of our clients’ portfolios  
to act in a way that benefits J.P. Morgan. Conflicts will result, for example  
(to the extent the following activities are permitted in your account): (1)  
when J.P. Morgan invests in an investment product, such as a mutual fund,  
structured product, separately managed account or hedge fund issued   
or managed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or an affiliate, such as   
J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc.; (2) when a J.P. Morgan entity  
obtains services, including trade execution and trade clearing, from an  
affiliate; (3) when J.P. Morgan receives payment as a result of purchasing  
an investment product for a client’s account; or (4) when J.P. Morgan  
receives payment for providing services (including shareholder servicing,  
recordkeeping or custody) with respect to investment products purchased  
for a client’s portfolio. Other conflicts will result because of relationships  
that J.P. Morgan has with other clients or when J.P. Morgan acts for its   
own account.  

Investment strategies are selected from both J.P. Morgan and third-party 
asset managers and are subject to a review process by our manager 
research teams. From this pool of strategies, our portfolio construction 
teams select those strategies we believe fit our asset allocation 
goals and forward-looking views in order to meet the portfolio’s investment 
objective. 

As a general matter, we prefer J.P. Morgan managed strategies. We expect 
the proportion of J.P. Morgan managed strategies will be high (in fact, up to 
100 percent) in strategies such as, for example, cash and high-quality fixed 
income, subject to applicable law and any account-specific considerations. 

While our internally managed strategies generally align well with our 
forward-looking views, and we are familiar with the investment processes 
as well as the risk and compliance philosophy of the firm, it is important 
to note that J.P. Morgan receives more overall fees when internally managed 
strategies are included. We offer the option of choosing to exclude J.P. 
Morgan managed strategies (other than cash and liquidity products) in 
certain portfolios. 

Legal Entity, Brand & Regulatory Information 
In the United States, bank deposit accounts and related services, such 
as checking, savings and bank lending, are offered by JPMorgan Chase 
Bank, N.A. Member FDIC. 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its affiliates (collectively “JPMCB”) offer 
investment products, which may include bank-managed investment accounts 
and custody, as part of its trust and fiduciary services. Other investment 
products and services, such as brokerage and advisory accounts, are offered 
through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMS”), a member of FINRA and SIPC. 

Insurance products are made available through Chase Insurance Agency, Inc. 
(CIA), a licensed insurance agency, doing business as Chase Insurance Agency 
Services, Inc. in Florida. JPMCB, JPMS and CIA are affiliated companies under 
the common control of JPM. Products not available in all states. 

In Germany, this material is issued by J.P. Morgan SE, with its registered 
office at Taunustor 1 (TaunusTurm), 60310 Frankfurt am Main, Germany, 
authorized by the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) 
and jointly supervised by the BaFin, the German Central Bank (Deutsche 
Bundesbank) and the European Central Bank (ECB). In Luxembourg, 
this material is issued by J.P. Morgan SE—Luxembourg Branch, with 
registered office at European Bank and Business Centre, 6 route de Treves, 
L-2633, Senningerberg, Luxembourg, authorized by the Bundesanstalt 
für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and jointly supervised by the 
BaFin, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and the European 
Central Bank (ECB); J.P. Morgan SE—Luxembourg Branch is also supervised 
by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF); registered 
under R.C.S Luxembourg B255938. In the United Kingdom, this material 
is issued by J.P. Morgan SE—London Branch, registered office at 25 Bank 
Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP, authorized by the Bundesanstalt für 
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and jointly supervised by the BaFin, 
the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and the European Central 
Bank (ECB); J.P. Morgan SE—London Branch is also supervised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. In Spain, this material 
is distributed by J.P. Morgan SE, Sucursal en España, with registered 
office at Paseo de la Castellana, 31, 28046 Madrid, Spain, authorized by the 
Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and jointly supervised 
by the BaFin, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and the 
European Central Bank (ECB); J.P. Morgan SE, Sucursal en España is also 
supervised by the Spanish Securities Market Commission (CNMV); registered 
with Bank of Spain as a branch of J.P. Morgan SE under code 1567. In Italy, this 
material is distributed by J.P. Morgan SE—Milan Branch, with its registered 
office at Via Cordusio, n.3, Milan 20123, Italy, authorized by the Bundesanstalt 
für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and jointly supervised by the BaFin, 
the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and the European Central 
Bank (ECB); J.P. Morgan SE—Milan Branch is also supervised by Bank of 
Italy and the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa (CONSOB); 
registered with Bank of Italy as a branch of J.P. Morgan SE under code 8076; 
Milan Chamber of Commerce Registered Number: REA MI 2536325. In the 
Netherlands, this material is distributed by J.P. Morgan SE—Amsterdam 
Branch, with registered office at World Trade Centre, Tower B, Strawinskylaan 
1135, 1077 XX, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, authorized by the Bundesanstalt 
für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and jointly supervised by the 
BaFin, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and the European 
Central Bank (ECB); J.P. Morgan SE—Amsterdam Branch is also supervised 
by De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) and the Autoriteit Financiële Markten 
(AFM) in the Netherlands. Registered with the Kamer van Koophandel as a 
branch of J.P. Morgan SE under registration number 72610220. In Denmark, 
this material is distributed by J.P. Morgan SE—Copenhagen Branch, filial 
af J.P. Morgan SE, Tyskland, with registered office at Kalvebod Brygge 
39-41, 1560 København V, Denmark, authorized by the Bundesanstalt für 
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and jointly supervised by the BaFin, the 
German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and the European Central Bank 
(ECB); J.P. Morgan SE—Copenhagen Branch, filial af J.P. Morgan SE, Tyskland 
is also supervised by Finanstilsynet (Danish FSA) and is registered with 
Finanstilsynet as a branch of J.P. Morgan SE under code 29010. In Sweden, 
this material is distributed by J.P. Morgan SE—Stockholm Bankfilial, with 
registered office at Hamngatan 15, Stockholm, 11147, Sweden, authorized 
by the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and jointly 
supervised by the BaFin, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) 

53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

and the European Central Bank (ECB); J.P. Morgan SE—Stockholm Bankfilial 
is also supervised by Finansinspektionen (Swedish FSA); registered with 
Finansinspektionen as a branch of J.P. Morgan SE. In France, this material is 
distributed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.—Paris Branch, registered office 
at 14, Place Vendome, Paris 75001, France, registered at the Registry of the 
Commercial Court of Paris under number 712 041 334 and licensed by the 
Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de resolution (ACPR) and supervised by the 
ACPR and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers. In Switzerland, this material 
is distributed by J.P. Morgan (Suisse) SA, with registered address at rue du 
Rhône, 35, 1204, Geneva, Switzerland, which is authorized and supervised by 
the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) as a bank and a 
securities dealer in Switzerland. 

This communication is an advertisement for the purposes of the Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive (MIFID II) and the Swiss Financial Services 
Act (FINSA). Investors should not subscribe for or purchase any financial 
instruments referred to in this advertisement except on the basis of 
information contained in any applicable legal documentation, which is or 
shall be made available in the relevant jurisdictions (as required). 

In Hong Kong, this material is distributed by JPMCB, Hong Kong branch. 
JPMCB, Hong Kong branch is regulated by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority 
and the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, 
we will cease to use your personal data for our marketing purposes without 
charge if you so request. In Singapore, this material is distributed by JPMCB, 
Singapore branch. JPMCB, Singapore branch is regulated by the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore. Dealing and advisory services and discretionary 
investment management services are provided to you by JPMCB, Hong Kong/ 
Singapore branch (as notified to you). Banking and custody services are 
provided to you by JPMCB Singapore Branch. The contents of this document 
have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong, Singapore 
or any other jurisdictions. You are advised to exercise caution in relation 
to this document. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of this 
document, you should obtain independent professional advice. For materials 
which constitute product advertisement under the Securities and Futures Act 
and the Financial Advisers Act, this advertisement has not been reviewed 
by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is a 
national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States, 
and as a body corporate, its shareholder’s liability is limited. 

With respect to countries in Latin America, the distribution of this material 
may be restricted in certain jurisdictions. We may offer and/or sell to you 
securities or other financial instruments which may not be registered 
under, and are not the subject of a public offering under, the securities 
or other financial regulatory laws of your home country. Such securities 
or instruments are offered and/or sold to you on a private basis only. Any 
communication by us to you regarding such securities or instruments, 
including without limitation the delivery of a prospectus, term sheet 
or other offering document, is not intended by us as an offer to sell 
or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or instruments in any 
jurisdiction in which such an offer or a solicitation is unlawful. Furthermore, 
such securities or instruments may be subject to certain regulatory 
and/or contractual restrictions on subsequent transfer by you, and you are 
solely responsible for ascertaining and complying with such restrictions. 
To the extent this content makes reference to a fund, the Fund may not be 
publicly offered in any Latin American country, without previous registration 
of such fund’s securities in compliance with the laws of the corresponding 
jurisdiction. Public offering of any security, including the shares of the 
Fund, without previous registration at Brazilian Securities and Exchange 
Commission—CVM is completely prohibited. Some products or services 

contained in the materials might not be currently provided by the Brazilian 
and Mexican platforms. 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMCBNA) (ABN 43 074 112 011/AFS Licence 
No: 238367) is regulated by the Australian Securities and Investment 
Commission and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. Material 
provided by JPMCBNA in Australia is to “wholesale clients” only. For the 
purposes of this paragraph the term “wholesale client” has the meaning 
given in section 761G of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Please inform us 
if you are not a Wholesale Client now or if you cease to be a Wholesale 
Client at any time in the future. 

JPMS is a registered foreign company (overseas) (ARBN 109293610)  
incorporated in Delaware, U.S.A. Under Australian financial services licensing  
requirements, carrying on a financial services business in Australia requires  
a financial service provider, such as J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS), to  
hold an Australian Financial Services Licence (AFSL), unless an exemption  
applies. JPMS is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under  
the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (Act) in respect of financial services  
it provides to you, and is regulated by the SEC, FINRA and CFTC under  
U.S. laws, which differ from Australian laws.  Material provided by JPMS  
in Australia is to “wholesale clients” only. The information provided in this  
material is not intended to be, and must not be, distributed or passed on,  
directly or indirectly, to any other class of persons in Australia. For the  
purposes of this paragraph the term “wholesale client” has the meaning  
given in section 761G of the Act. Please inform us immediately if you are not  
a Wholesale Client now or if you cease to be a Wholesale Client at any time  
in the future. 

This material has not been prepared specifically for Australian investors. It: 

• May contain references to dollar amounts which are not Australian dollars; 

• May contain financial information which is not prepared in accordance with 
Australian law or practices; 

• May not address risks associated with investment in foreign currency
   denominated investments; and 

• Does not address Australian tax issues. 

References to “J.P. Morgan” are to JPM, its subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. 
“J.P. Morgan Private Bank” is the brand name for the private banking business 
conducted by JPM. This material is intended for your personal use and should 
not be circulated to or used by any other person, or duplicated for non-
personal use, without our permission. If you have any questions or no longer 
wish to receive these communications, please contact your J.P. Morgan team. 

© 2022 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. 

54 
