
Fixed Income

MUSINGS

FIXED INCOME
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
1

July 29, 2022

POLICY PICTURE

The Fed appears to have concluded the “expeditious” 
phase of its tightening cycle, delivering a 75bps rate hike to 
take the policy rate to their own neutral estimate of 2.25-
2.5%. Markets responded favourably in anticipation of a 
slower pace of tightening ahead (see Chart) given a loss of 
growth momentum, emerging signs of easing inflation 
pressures and the Fed’s emphasis on data dependence 
going forward (see quote). 

Overall, we think the outlook for Fed policy has turned more 
balanced. We expect a further rate increase in September, 
with the hike increment being guided by key data releases 
such as the employment cost index, PCE inflation and 
measures of consumer inflation expectations. Thereafter, 
we think signs of softening in both the labour market and 
inflation outturns could see the Fed pause to assess the 
impact of this year’s rapid tightening. After all, the Fed has 
raised rates by 2.25% in just five months.  

Notwithstanding the growing accumulation of evidence on 
weaker growth prospects for the second half of the year, 
policymakers appear to be retaining a glass-half-full 
assessment of the economy. During the post-meeting press 
conference Fed Chair Jerome Powell said he does not 
think the US is currently in recession as “there are just too 
many areas of the economy that are performing too well.” 
Meanwhile, US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen highlighted 
the creation of almost 400,000 jobs a month “is not a 
recession” and that a recession would require a “broad-
based weakening of the economy” which is inconsistent 
with recent data. 

Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. The economic and market forecasts presented herein are for informational purposes as of the date of this presentation. There 
can be no assurance that the forecasts will be achieved. Please see additional disclosures at the end of this presentation.

Pullback in monetary tightening expectations 

Source: Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Macrobond, Bloomberg. Fed pricing as of July 
22, 2022  is adjusted to reflect this week’s 75 basis points increase. 

Market-implied pricing for further rate changes by year-end (basis points)

We've been saying we would move expeditiously to get 
to the range of neutral. And I think we've done that 
now. While another unusually large increase could be 
appropriate at our next meeting, that is a decision that 
will depend on the data we get between now and 
then.”

Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s Press Conference

July 27 2022 

0

50

100

150

200

Fed
BoE
ECB

As of July 22, 2022
As of July 29, 2022

Fixed Income

MUSINGS

Goldman Sachs Asset Management
2
FIXED INCOME

July 29, 2022

MACRO AT A GLANCE

Economic data has turned more mixed and is not 
consistently supportive of rapid monetary tightening. For 
example, flash composite PMI readings for July were in 
contractionary territory in the US and Euro Area (see 
Chart). Weakness on the services side of the economy 
likely reflects the cost-of-living crisis and indicates the post-
Omicron rebound is behind us. 

In Europe, high inflation continues to weigh on sentiment 
with the German ifo Business Climate index falling to its 
lowest level since June 2020. Meanwhile, the US economy 
experienced its second consecutive quarter of negative 
GDP growth. With nonfarm payroll growth averaging 
375,000 during the second quarter and GDP data subject to 
revisions, we do not think the economy was in a recession 
in the first half of the year, however, we acknowledge risks 
are building. 

NAVIGATING FIXED INCOME

A “bad news is good news” dynamic has emerged whereby 
signs of slowing growth and easing inflation pressures 
provides some relief for markets due to reduced risks of 
policy overtightening. That said, within fixed income 
sectors, bouts of weakness in lower-quality bonds reflects 
growing growth concerns (see Chart). 

We used recent strength in high yield corporate credit as an 
opening to scale back our exposure. Overall, we remain 
overweight corporate bonds given continued strength in 
corporate balance sheet positions. However, we are 
mindful of downbeat signals from second quarter earnings 
releases, including signs of slowing consumer demand 
owing to inflation pressures. 

Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. The economic and market forecasts presented herein are for informational purposes as of the date of this presentation. There 
can be no assurance that the forecasts will be achieved. Please see additional disclosures at the end of this presentation.

Lower-quality weakness reflects growth concerns

Source: Macrobond, ICE-BAML, Goldman Sachs Asset Management. As of July 28, 2022.

Survey says…we are heading towards a recession

Source: Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Haver Analytics. As of July 2022 for all 
economies, with the exception of China which is as of June 2022.

Composite PMI Index  

CCC/BB and CCC/B spread ratios for the USD and EUR market

0

10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80

2019
2020
2021
2022

United States
United Kingdom
Euro Area
China

A reading below 50 indicates 
contracting activity relative
to a month earlier

1.2

1.4

1.6

1.8

2.0

2.2

2.4

2.0

2.5

3.0

3.5

4.0

4.5

'20
'21
'22

CCC Rated & Lower/BB Rated (left)
CCC Rated & Lower/B Rated (right)

CCC Rated & Lower 
underperformance 
MUSINGS

FIXED INCOME
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
3

CENTRAL BANK SNAPSHOT

Source: Goldman Sachs Asset Management. As of July 29, 2022. The economic and market forecasts presented herein are for informational purposes as of the date of this presentation. There 
can be no assurance that the forecasts will be achieved. Please see additional disclosures at the end of this presentation.

Interest Rate Policy
Balance Sheet Policy
Outlook

Our outlook 
relative to 

market-implied 

pricing

Fed
Federal funds rate: 
2.25%-2.50% 

Last changed: 

July 2022 (+75bps)
Prior changes:

June 2022 (+75bps)

May 2022 (+50bps)

March 2022 (+25bps)

Started reducing the monthly pace of its net asset 
purchases in November 2021 and ended net 
additional purchases of Treasuries and agency MBS 
in early March. Balance sheet runoff begins in June; 
an eventual monthly cap will be set at $95bn—split 
$60bn-$35bn between US Treasury and mortgage-
backed securities (MBS)—and the caps will initially be 
set at half of those levels for the first three months of 
runoff ($30bn UST-$17.5bn MBS).

Balance sheet size: 37% of GDP

We expect a 50bps rate 
hike in September 
followed by a reversion 
to 25bps rate hikes. 

Slightly hawkish

ECB
Deposit facility rate: 
0.0%

Last changed: 
July 2022 
(+50bps), the first hike 
since 2011

The ECB will end net APP purchases from July 1, 
2022. Reinvestments under the PEPP will continue 
until at least the end of 2024. On July 21, the ECB 
announced a new anti-fragmentation tool, the 
Transmission Protection Instrument (TPI), used to 
ensure monetary policy is transmitted smoothly across 
all euro area countries. Balance sheet size: 65% of 
GDP

We expect a 50bps hike 
in September and two 
further 25bps rate hikes 
at the October and 
December meetings. 

Slightly dovish 

BoE
Bank Rate: 
1.25% 

Last changed: 
June 2022 (+25bps)

Prior changes:

May 2022 (+25bps)
March 2022 (+25bps)

February 2022
(+25bps)

December 2021 
(+15bps)

BoE members voted in February 2022 to begin to 
reduce the stock of UK government bond purchases 
by ceasing to reinvest maturing assets, as well as to 
begin to reduce the stock of sterling non-financial 
investment grade corporate bond purchases by 
ceasing to reinvest maturing assets and by a program 
of corporate bond sales. 

Balance sheet size: 30% of GDP

We think the BoE will 
hike rates further to 
1.75% before pausing its 
hiking cycle. 

We expect the BoE to
commence bond sales at 
their September 
meeting. 

Slightly dovish

BoJ
Policy deposit rate: 
-0.10% 

Last changed: 
January 2016, when 
the Bank introduced its 
negative interest rate 
policy (NIRP) 

10-year JGB yield 
target: ~0%, with 
tolerance band of -
/+25bp (yield curve 
control policy)

The Bank voted in January 2021 to purchase ETFs 
and Japanese REITs as necessary with upper limits of 
~¥12tn and ~¥180bn, respectively, on annual paces of 
increase in their outstanding amounts, as well as to 
purchase commercial paper and corporate bonds with 
an upper limit on the outstanding amount of ~¥20tn in 
total until the end of March.

Balance sheet size: 135% of GDP

We expect unchanged 
policies through 2022 but 
see scope for a rate hike 
in 2023.

Slightly dovish
MUSINGS

FIXED INCOME
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
4

10-YEAR SOVEREIGN BOND YIELDS (%)

Source: Macrobond, Goldman Sachs Asset Management. As of July 29, 2022.

FIXED INCOME SECTOR SPREADS

Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. The economic and market forecasts presented herein are for informational purposes as of the date of this presentation. 
There can be no assurance that the forecasts will be achieved. Please see additional disclosures at the end of this presentation.

Investment Grade and Securitized Spreads (bps)

Source: Macrobond. ICE BoAML indices. As of  July 28, 2022.

High Yield and Emerging Market Spreads (bps)

Source: Macrobond. ICE BoAML, J.P. Morgan indices. As of  July 28, 2022.
MUSINGS

FIXED INCOME
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
5

Disclosures

Views and opinions are current as of date of publication and may be subject to change, 
they should not be construed as investment advice.

Views and opinions expressed are for informational purposes only and do not constitute a 
recommendation by Goldman Sachs Asset Management to buy, sell, or hold any security. 

Individual portfolio management teams for Goldman Sachs Asset Management may have 
views and opinions and/or make investment decisions that, in certain instances, may not 
always be consistent with the views and opinions expressed herein. 

This material is provided at your request for informational purposes only. It is not an offer 
or solicitation to buy or sell any securities.

The website links provided are for your convenience only and are not an endorsement or 
recommendation by Goldman Sachs Asset Management of any of these websites or the 
products or services offered. Goldman Sachs Asset Management is not responsible for the 
accuracy and validity of the content of these websites.

Although certain information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, we 
do not guarantee its accuracy, completeness or fairness. We have relied upon and 
assumed without independent verification, the accuracy and completeness of all 
information available from public sources.

This information discusses general market activity, industry or sector trends, or other 
broad-based economic, market or political conditions and should not be construed as 
research or investment advice. This material has been prepared by Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management and is not financial research nor a product of Goldman Sachs Global 
Investment Research (GIR). It was not prepared in compliance with applicable provisions 
of law designed to promote the independence of financial analysis and is not subject to a 
prohibition on trading following the distribution of financial research. The views and 
opinions expressed may differ from those of Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 
or other departments or divisions of Goldman Sachs and its affiliates. Investors are urged 
to consult with their financial advisors before buying or selling any securities. This 
information may not be current and Goldman Sachs Asset Management has no obligation 
to provide any updates or changes. 

Economic and market forecasts presented herein reflect a series of assumptions and 
judgments as of the date of this presentation and are subject to change without notice.  
These forecasts do not take into account the specific investment objectives, restrictions, 
tax and financial situation or other needs of any specific client.  Actual data will vary and 
may not be reflected here.  These forecasts are subject to high levels of uncertainty that 
may affect actual performance. Accordingly, these forecasts should be viewed as merely 
representative of a broad range of possible outcomes.  These forecasts are estimated, 
based on assumptions, and are subject to significant revision and may change materially 
as economic and market conditions change. Goldman Sachs has no obligation to provide 
updates or changes to these forecasts.  Case studies and examples are for illustrative 
purposes only.

Investments in fixed-income securities are subject to credit and interest rate risks. Bond 
prices fluctuate inversely to changes in interest rates. Therefore, a general rise in interest 
rates can result in the decline in the bond’s price. 

THIS MATERIAL DOES NOT CONSTITUTE AN OFFER OR SOLICITATION IN ANY 
JURISDICTION WHERE OR TO ANY PERSON TO WHOM IT WOULD BE UNAUTHORIZED OR 
UNLAWFUL TO DO SO. 

Prospective investors should inform themselves as to any applicable legal requirements 
and taxation and exchange control regulations in the countries of their citizenship, 
residence or domicile which might be relevant.

Goldman Sachs does not provide legal, tax or accounting advice, unless explicitly agreed 
between you and Goldman Sachs (generally through certain services offered only to clients 
of Private Wealth Management). Any statement contained in this presentation concerning 
U.S. tax matters is not intended or written to be used and cannot be used for the purpose 
of avoiding penalties imposed on the relevant taxpayer.  Notwithstanding anything in this 
document to the contrary, and except as required to enable compliance with applicable 
securities law, you may disclose to any person the US federal and state income tax 

treatment and tax structure of the transaction and all materials of any kind (including tax 
opinions and other tax analyses) that are provided to you relating to such tax treatment 
and tax structure, without Goldman Sachs imposing any limitation of any kind.  Investors 
should be aware that a determination of the tax consequences to them should take into 
account their specific circumstances and that the tax law is subject to change in the future 
or retroactively and investors are strongly urged to consult with their own tax advisor 
regarding any potential strategy, investment or transaction.

United Kingdom: In the United Kingdom, this material is a financial promotion and has 
been approved by Goldman Sachs Asset Management International, which is authorized 
and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority.

European Economic Area (EEA): This material is a financial promotion disseminated by 
Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE, including through its authorised branches ("GSBE"). 
GSBE is a credit institution incorporated in Germany and, within the Single Supervisory 
Mechanism established between those Member States of the European Union whose 
official currency is the Euro, subject to direct prudential supervision by the European 
Central Bank and in other respects supervised by German Federal Financial Supervisory 
Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufischt, BaFin) and Deutsche 
Bundesbank.

Switzerland: For Qualified Investor use only – Not for distribution to general public. This is 
marketing material. This document is provided to you by Goldman Sachs Bank AG, Zürich. 
Any future contractual relationships will be entered into with affiliates of Goldman Sachs 
Bank AG, which are domiciled outside of Switzerland. We would like to remind you that 
foreign (Non-Swiss) legal and regulatory systems may not provide the same level of 
protection in relation to client confidentiality and data protection as offered to you by 
Swiss law.

Asia Pacific: Please note that neither Goldman Sachs Asset Management International nor 
any other entities involved in the Goldman Sachs Asset Management business maintain 
any licenses, authorizations or registrations in Asia (other than Japan), except that it 
conducts businesses (subject to applicable local regulations) in and from the following 
jurisdictions: Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia.  This material has been issued for use 
in or from Hong Kong by Goldman Sachs Asset Management (Hong Kong) Limited, in or 
from Singapore by Goldman Sachs Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (Company 
Number: 201329851H) and in or from Malaysia by Goldman Sachs (Malaysia) Sdn 
Berhad (880767W).

Australia: This material is distributed by Goldman Sachs Asset Management Australia Pty 
Ltd ABN 41 006 099 681, AFSL 228948 (‘GSAMA’) and is intended for viewing only by 
wholesale clients for the purposes of section 761G of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
This document may not be distributed to retail clients in Australia (as that term is defined 
in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)) or to the general public. This document may not be 
reproduced or distributed to any person without the prior consent of GSAMA. To the extent 
that this document contains any statement which may be considered to be financial 
product advice in Australia under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), that advice is intended 
to be given to the intended recipient of this document only, being a wholesale client for the 
purposes of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 

Any advice provided in this document is provided by either Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management International (GSAMI), Goldman Sachs International (GSI), Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management, LP (GSAMLP) or Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (GSCo). 

Both GSCo and GSAMLP are regulated by the US Securities and Exchange Commission 
under US laws, which differ from Australian laws. Both GSI and GSAMI are regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority and GSI is authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority 
under UK laws, which differ from Australian laws. GSI, GSAMI, GSCo, and GSAMLP are all 
exempt from the requirement to hold an Australian financial services licence under the 
Corporations Act of Australia and therefore do not hold any Australian Financial Services 
Licences. Any financial services given to any person by GSI, GSAMI, GSCo or GSAMLP by 
distributing this document in Australia are provided to such persons pursuant to ASIC 
Class Orders 03/1099 and 03/1100. No offer to acquire any interest in a fund or a 
financial product is being made to you in this document. If the interests or financial 
products do become available in the future, the offer may be arranged by GSAMA in 
accordance with section 911A(2)(b) of the Corporations Act. GSAMA holds Australian 
Financial Services Licence No. 228948. 
MUSINGS

FIXED INCOME
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
6

Any offer will only be made in circumstances where disclosure is not required under Part 
6D.2 of the Corporations Act or a product disclosure statement is not required to be given 
under Part 7.9 of the Corporations Act (as relevant).

Canada: This presentation has been communicated in Canada by Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management LP, which is registered as a portfolio manager under securities legislation in 
all provinces of Canada and as a commodity trading manager under the commodity 
futures legislation of Ontario and as a derivatives adviser under the derivatives legislation 
of Quebec. Goldman Sachs Asset Management LP is not registered to provide investment 
advisory or portfolio management services in respect of exchange-traded futures or 
options contracts in Manitoba and is not offering to provide such investment advisory or 
portfolio management services in Manitoba by delivery of this material.

Japan: This material has been issued or approved in Japan for the use of professional 
investors defined in Article 2 paragraph (31) of the Financial Instruments and Exchange 
Law by Goldman Sachs Asset Management Co., Ltd.

Cambodia:Please Note: The attached information has been provided at your request for 
informational purposes only and is not intended as a solicitation in respect of the purchase 
or sale of instruments or securities (including funds) or the provision of services. Neither 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. nor any of its affiliates is 
licensed as a dealer or investment advisor under The Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Cambodia. The information has been provided to you solely for your own purposes and 
must not be copied or redistributed to any person without the prior consent of Goldman 
Sachs Asset Management. 

Timor: Please Note: The attached information has been provided at your request for 
informational purposes only and is not intended as a solicitation in respect of the purchase 
or sale of instruments or securities (including funds), or the provision of services. Neither 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. nor any of its affiliates is 
licensed under any laws or regulations of Timor-Leste. The information has been provided 
to you solely for your own purposes and must not be copied or redistributed to any person 
or institution without the prior consent of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.

Vietnam: Please Note: The attached information has been provided at your request for 
informational purposes only. The attached materials are not, and any authors who 
contribute to these materials are not, providing advice to any person. The attached 
materials are not and should not be construed as an offering of any securities or any 
services to any person. Neither Goldman Sachs Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
nor any of its affiliates is licensed as a dealer under the laws of Vietnam. The information 
has been provided to you solely for your own purposes and must not be copied or 
redistributed to any person without the prior consent of Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management.

Brazil: These materials are provided at your request and solely for your information, and in 
no way constitutes an offer, solicitation, advertisement or advice of, or in relation to, any 
securities, funds, or products by any of Goldman Sachs affiliates in Brazil or in any 
jurisdiction in which such activity is unlawful or unauthorized, or to any person to whom it is 
unlawful or unauthorized. This document has not been delivered for registration to the 
relevant regulators or financial supervisory bodies in Brazil, such as the Brazilian Securities 
and Exchange Commission (Comissão de ValoresMobiliários– CVM) nor has its content 
been reviewed or approved by any such regulators or financial supervisory bodies. The 
securities, funds, or products described in this document have not been registered with the 
relevant regulators or financial supervisory bodies in Brazil, such as the CVM, nor have 
been submitted for approval by any such regulators or financial supervisory bodies. The 
recipient undertakes to keep these materials as well as the information contained herein 
as confidential and not to circulate them to any third party.

Colombia: This presentation does not have the purpose or the effect of initiating, directly or 
indirectly, the purchase of a product or the rendering of a service by Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management to Colombian residents. Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s products 
and/or services may not be promoted or marketed in Colombia or to Colombian residents 
unless such promotion and marketing is made in compliance with Decree 2555 of 2010 
and other applicable rules and regulations related to the promotion of foreign financial 
and/or securities-related products and/or services in Colombia or to Colombian 
residents. 

Bahrain: FOR [●] INFORMATION ONLY – NOT FOR WIDER DISTRIBUTION

This material has not been reviewed by the Central Bank of Bahrain (CBB) and the CBB 
takes no responsibility for the accuracy of the statements or the information contained 
herein, or for the performance of the securities or related investment, nor shall the CBB 
have any liability to any person for damage or loss resulting from reliance on any statement 
or information contained herein. This material will not be issued, passed to, or made 
available to the public generally.

Kuwait: FOR [●] INFORMATION ONLY – NOT FOR WIDER DISTRIBUTION

The investments described in this document have not been and will not be registered, 
authorised, licensed or approved for offering, marketing or sale in the State of Kuwait 
pursuant to Law No. 31 of 1990 and Law No. 7 of 2010 nor by the Central Bank of Kuwait 
or any other relevant Kuwaiti government agency and shall not be offered or sold in the 
State of Kuwait, except in compliance with the above. No private or public offering is being 
made in the State of Kuwait, and no agreement relating to the sale of such investments will 
be concluded in the State of Kuwait. No marketing or solicitation or inducement activities 
are being used to offer or market such investments in the State of Kuwait.

Oman: FOR [●] INFORMATION ONLY – NOT FOR WIDER DISTRIBUTION

The Capital Market Authority of the Sultanate of Oman (the "CMA") is not liable for the 
correctness or adequacy of information provided in this document or for identifying 
whether or not the services contemplated within this document are appropriate investment 
for a potential investor. The CMA shall also not be liable for any damage or loss resulting 
from reliance placed on the document.

Qatar: FOR [●] INFORMATION ONLY – NOT FOR WIDER DISTRIBUTION

This document has not been, and will not be, registered with or reviewed or approved by 
the Qatar Financial Markets Authority, the Qatar Financial Centre Regulatory Authority or 
Qatar Central Bank and may not be publicly distributed. It is not for general circulation in 
the State of Qatar and may not be reproduced or used for any other purpose.

Saudi Arabia: FOR [●] INFORMATION ONLY – NOT FOR WIDER DISTRIBUTION

The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or 
completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any 
loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. If you do not 
understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorised financial 
adviser.

FOR [●] INFORMATION ONLY – NOT FOR WIDER DISTRIBUTION

These materials are presented to you by Goldman Sachs Saudi Arabia Company 
("GSSA"). GSSA is authorised and regulated by the Capital Market Authority (“CMA”) in 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. GSSA is subject to relevant CMA rules and guidance, details 
of which can be found on the CMA’s website at www.cma.org.sa.

The CMA does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of these 
materials, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or 
incurred in reliance upon, any part of these materials. If you do not understand the 
contents of these materials, you should consult an authorised financial adviser.

United Aram Emirates: FOR [●] INFORMATION ONLY – NOT FOR WIDER DISTRIBUTION

This document has not been approved by, or filed with the Central Bank of the United Arab 
Emirates or the Securities and Commodities Authority. If you do not understand the 
contents of this document, you should consult with a financial advisor.

South Africa: Goldman Sachs Asset Management International is authorised by the 
Financial Services Board of South Africa as a financial services provider.

By receiving this presentation, and in case any contact is made with Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management, each recipient resident in Colombia acknowledges and agrees that it has 
contacted Goldman Sachs Asset Management at its own initiative and not as a result of 
any promotion or publicity by Goldman Sachs Asset Management or any of their respective 
agents or representatives. Colombian residents acknowledge that (1) the receipt of this 
presentation does not constitute a solicitation from Goldman Sachs Asset Management 
for its products and/or services, and (2) they are not receiving from Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management any direct or indirect promotion or marketing of financial and/or securities-
related products and/or services. 
MUSINGS

FIXED INCOME
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
7

This presentation is strictly private and confidential and may not be reproduced or used for 
any purpose other than evaluation of a potential investment in Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management’s products or the procurement of its services by the recipient of this this 
presentation or provided to any person or entity other than the recipient of this this 
presentation. 

Esta presentación no tiene el propósito o el efecto de iniciar, directa o indirectamente, la 
adquisición de un producto a prestación de un servicio por parte de Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management a residentes colombianos. servicios financieros y /o del mercado de valores 
en Colombia o a residentes colombianos. 

Los productos y/o servicios de Goldman Sachs Asset Management no podrán ser 
ofrecidos ni promocionados en Colombia o a residentes Colombianos a menos que dicha 
oferta y promoción se lleve a cabo en cumplimiento del Decreto 2555 de 2010 y las otras 
reglas y regulaciones aplicables en materia de promoción de productos y/o .Al recibir esta
presentación, y en caso que se decida contactara Goldman Sachs Asset Management, 
cada destinatarioresidenteen Colombia reconocey acepta que ha contactadoa Goldman 
Sachs Asset Management por su propia iniciativay no como resultadode cualquier
promoción o publicidad por parte de Goldman Sachs Asset Management o cualquierade 
sus agentes o representantes. Los residentes colombianos reconocenque (1) la recepción
de esta presentación no constituyeuna solicitud de los productos y/o servicios de 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, y (2) que no están recibiendoningunaoferta o 
promoción directa o indirectade productos y/o servicios financieros y/o del mercado de 
valores por parte de Goldman Sachs Asset Management. 

Esta presentación es estrictamenteprivada y confidencial, y no podrá ser reproducidao 
utilizadapara cualquierpropósito diferentea la evaluaciónde una inversiónpotencialen 
los productos de Goldman Sachs Asset Management o la contrataciónde sus servicios por 
parte del destinatariode esta presentación, no podrá ser proporcionadaa una persona 
diferentedel destinatariode esta presentación.

Index Benchmarks
Indices are unmanaged. The figures for the index reflect the reinvestment of all income or 
dividends, as applicable, but do not reflect the deduction of any fees or expenses which 
would reduce returns. Investors cannot invest directly in indices.

The indices referenced herein have been selected because they are well known, easily 
recognized by investors, and reflect those indices that the Investment Manager believes, in 
part based on industry practice, provide a suitable benchmark against which to evaluate 
the investment or broader market described herein.  The exclusion of “failed” or closed 
hedge funds may mean that each index overstates the performance of hedge funds 
generally.

Sector Spread Indexes
US Investment Grade Corporates: ICE BofAML US Corporate Index
US High Yield Corporates:ICE BofAML US Corporate High Yield Index
European Investment Grade Corporates: ICE BofAML Euro Corporate Index
European High Yield Corporates: ICE BofAML Euro High Yield Index
ABS: ICE BofAML US Fixed Rate Asset-Backed Securities Index
MBS: ICE BofAML US Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities Index
CMBS: ICE BofAML US Fixed Rate Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities Index
EM External Debt: J.P. Morgan, EMBI Global Diversified Face Constrained Index

Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. The value of 
investments and the income derived from investments will fluctuate and can go down as 
well as up. A loss of principal may occur.

Abbreviations: US Federal Reserve (Fed),  European Central Bank (ECB), Bank of England 
(BoE), Bank of Japan (BoJ), Quantitative Easing (QE), Quantitative Tightening (QT), 
Pandemic Emergency Purchase Program (PEPP).

Confidentiality
No part of this material may, without Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s prior written 
consent, be (i) copied, photocopied or duplicated in any form, by any means, or (ii) 
distributed to any person that is not an employee, officer, director, or authorized agent of 
the recipient.

© 2022 Goldman Sachs. All rights reserved. 

Jurisdiction compliance code: 285876-TMPL-07/2022-1641660. 
Compliance Code : 286977-OTU-1646425.
